.TH BRIXMOUNT 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
brixMount \- hardened FUSE mount for CVMFS, EOS, XRootD and S3 backends
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B brixMount
\fITYPE\fR \fIENDPOINT\fR \fIMOUNTDIR\fR [\fIfuse-opts\fR]
.br
.B brixMount
\fB\-\-overlay\-list\fR \fIMOUNTDIR\fR
.br
.B brixMount
\fB\-\-overlay\-reset\fR \fIMOUNTDIR\fR
.br
.B brixMount
\fBcvmfs \-\-prewarm\fR \fIREPOSITORY\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B brixMount
is a single hardened front-end for mounting remote filesystems via FUSE3.
It dispatches to the correct driver based on \fITYPE\fR while exposing a
uniform brand and resilience story ("battle-tested against bad/evil networks").
.PP
All drivers share the same reconnect and resilience core from
.BR libbrix .
.SH TYPES
.TP
.B cvmfs
Mount a read-only CVMFS repository.
\fIENDPOINT\fR is the repository name (e.g. \fBatlas.cern.ch\fR).
.TP
.B cvmfs\-rw
Mount a CVMFS repository with a local writable overlay (union mount semantics).
Local modifications are tracked; use \fB\-\-overlay\-list\fR to inspect and
\fB\-\-overlay\-reset\fR to discard them.
.TP
.B autofs
Automount umbrella for a whole /cvmfs tree: \fIENDPOINT\fR is the CVMFS
configuration root (\fB\-\fR for the \fI/etc/cvmfs\fR default) and
\fIMOUNTDIR\fR is the umbrella directory (typically \fB/cvmfs\fR).
Configured repositories appear as ghost entries; the first path resolution
of \fIMOUNTDIR\fR/\fIfqrn\fR mounts the repository on demand by spawning
\fBbrixMount cvmfs\fR into a mount farm (default
\fIcachebase\fB/.mnt/\fIfqrn\fR) and serving a symlink to it \(em no autofs
kernel module or systemd dependency, works unprivileged.  Honors
\fBCVMFS_REPOSITORIES\fR and \fBCVMFS_STRICT_MOUNT\fR from the configuration
cascade.  Extra \fB\-o\fR options: \fBidle=\fIsecs\fR (idle unmount, 600
default, 0 disables), \fBtimeout=\fIsecs\fR (child mount timeout),
\fBcachebase=\fIdir\fR (per-repo child caches), \fBmntbase=\fIdir\fR
(mount farm override), \fBrepos=\fIa:b\fR (overrides CVMFS_REPOSITORIES).
.TP
.B eos
Mount an EOS namespace via XRootDFS-brix.
\fIENDPOINT\fR is a \fBroot://\fR URL (e.g. \fBroot://eoslhcb.cern.ch\fR).
.TP
.B root
Mount an XRootD namespace via XRootDFS-brix using an unencrypted
\fBroot://\fR connection.
.TP
.B roots
Mount an XRootD namespace via XRootDFS-brix using an encrypted
\fBroots://\fR (TLS) connection.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-overlay\-list \fIMOUNTDIR\fR
List local changes in a \fBcvmfs\-rw\fR overlay at \fIMOUNTDIR\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-overlay\-reset \fIMOUNTDIR\fR
Discard all local changes in a \fBcvmfs\-rw\fR overlay at \fIMOUNTDIR\fR.
.TP
.B cvmfs \-\-prewarm \fIREPOSITORY\fR
Verify the repository trust chain, walk the whole snapshot (the pinned one
when \fBBRIXCVMFS_PIN\fR is set) and pull every referenced object into the
local cache \(em no mount involved.  Prints a per-sweep summary and exits 0
only on a clean, complete sweep (\fBWARM\fR); any fetch error or a
catalog-verification abort exits nonzero (\fBINCOMPLETE\fR).
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.PP
Any remaining arguments after \fIMOUNTDIR\fR are passed to the underlying
FUSE driver (e.g. \fB\-f\fR for foreground, \fB\-d\fR for debug,
\fB\-o allow_other\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Mount the ATLAS CVMFS repository
brixMount cvmfs atlas.cern.ch ~/atlas-cvmfs/

# Mount with a local writable overlay
brixMount cvmfs-rw atlas.cern.ch ~/atlas-overlay/
brixMount --overlay-list ~/atlas-overlay/   # inspect changes
brixMount --overlay-reset ~/atlas-overlay/  # discard changes

# Automount any configured repository under /cvmfs on first access
brixMount autofs - /cvmfs -o allow_other,idle=600
ls /cvmfs/atlas.cern.ch    # mounts on demand

# Warm the local cache with a full snapshot before a job wave (no mount)
brixMount cvmfs --prewarm atlas.cern.ch

# Mount an EOS namespace
brixMount eos root://eoslhcb.cern.ch ~/eos/

# Mount an XRootD server with TLS, in the foreground for debugging
brixMount roots store.example:1094 /mnt/xrd -f
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_SERVER
Override the CVMFS Stratum-1 server URL for the \fBcvmfs\fR and \fBcvmfs\-rw\fR drivers.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_PUBKEY
Path to the repository public key for signature verification.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_CACHE
Override the CVMFS cache directory path.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_TMP
Override the CVMFS temporary directory.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_ETC
Override the CVMFS configuration directory.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_PIN
Pin a \fBcvmfs\fR mount to an exact root-catalog hash (same as
\fB\-o pin=\fIHASH\fR): the mount serves exactly that snapshot, refresh never
follows an upstream catalog rollover, and a verified upstream advance is
surfaced as a single \fBsignal=pindrift\fR audit line instead of being
silently followed.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_PREFETCH
Enable predictive prefetch on a \fBcvmfs\fR mount (same as
\fB\-o prefetch=\fIDEPTH\fR): the first listing of a directory queues a
background walk of that catalog subtree (descending \fIDEPTH\fR nested-catalog
levels) that pre-pulls its content objects into the local cache, so later
opens are cache hits. Advisory only — prefetch errors never affect foreground
operations.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_PREFETCH_BUDGET
Byte budget for predictive prefetch (same as
\fB\-o prefetch_budget=\fIBYTES\fR; 0 = unbounded). Hitting the budget stops
the sweep with a single \fBsignal=prefetchcap\fR audit line.
.TP
.B BEARER_TOKEN
Bearer token for HTTP(S) / WebDAV endpoints.
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
GSI proxy certificate path.
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration file: endpoint aliases and default credentials.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success.
2 on a usage error or if the underlying driver fails to mount.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrootdfs (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR fusermount3 (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
