.TH BRIX-FAULT-PROXY 1 "2026-07-19" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
brix\-fault\-proxy \- root\-free TCP fault\-injection proxy for resilience testing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B brix\-fault\-proxy
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIPORT\fR \fB\-\-target\fR \fIHOST\fR:\fIPORT\fR [\fB\-\-target\fR ...] \fB\-\-control\fR \fIPORT\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B brix\-fault\-proxy
\fILISTEN_PORT\fR \fITARGET_HOST\fR \fITARGET_PORT\fR \fICONTROL_PORT\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B brix\-fault\-proxy
relays a TCP stream from a local listen port to an upstream
.IR HOST : PORT
and injects network faults on demand \(em latency, jitter, partial writes,
slow\-drip pacing, bandwidth caps, packet\-loss resets, in\-band payload
corruption, chunk duplication, deterministic mid\-transfer truncation, connection
black\-holes, and full outages.
It is a small, dependency\-free "toxiproxy\-lite" that can be spliced in front of
any brix, XRootD, or HTTP endpoint to prove a client survives a degraded \(em or
actively hostile \(em network,
.B without root:
unlike
.BR tc / netem
(which needs CAP_NET_ADMIN) it is pure userspace sockets.
.PP
Faults are set two ways: at startup with the initial\-fault option flags below,
and live \(em while traffic flows \(em by writing newline\-terminated commands to
the control port.
Each lever is off (0) by default.
.SS Directionality
Every byte\-level lever is per\-direction.
.B up
is the client\(->upstream path (request / upload);
.B down
is the upstream\(->client path (response / download).
A control command with no direction token applies to
.BR both ;
append
.BR up ,
.BR down ,
or
.B both
to target one way (for example \fBcorrupt 0.01 down\fR).
.PP
The second, positional, form is an equivalent shorthand accepted only when none
of \fB\-\-listen\fR, \fB\-\-target\fR, or \fB\-\-control\fR is given.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Endpoints
.TP
.BI \-\-listen " PORT" "\fR, \fB\-l " PORT
Local port to accept client connections on.
.TP
.BI \-\-target " HOST:PORT" "\fR, \fB\-t " HOST:PORT
Upstream endpoint to relay to.
May be given more than once (or as a comma\-separated list) to build a pool that
is used round\-robin, with per\-connection failover to the remaining targets when
a dial fails.
.TP
.BI \-\-control " PORT" "\fR, \fB\-c " PORT
Control port for live fault commands.
.TP
.BI \-\-bind " ADDR" "\fR, \fB\-b " ADDR
Address to bind the listen and control sockets to (default \fB127.0.0.1\fR).
Accepts an IPv4 or IPv6 literal.
.TP
.B \-\-insecure\-bind
Permit a non\-loopback \fB\-\-bind\fR.
The control port is unauthenticated, so widening it beyond loopback is refused
unless this flag is given; when it is, a warning is printed.
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-conns " N"
Cap the number of concurrently relayed connections; further connections are
refused while at the cap (0 = unlimited).
.TP
.BI \-\-seed " N"
Seed the per\-connection fault RNG so probabilistic levers (lossy, reorder,
corrupt, dup) are reproducible run to run.
.TP
.BI \-\-script " FILE"
Replay a timeline of \fB<seconds> <command>\fR lines: each command is applied at
its offset (in seconds) from startup.
Blank lines and \fB#\fR comments are ignored.
.TP
.BR \-\-quiet ", " \-q
Suppress the startup banner.
.SS Initial fault levers
These set a lever at startup; each is also settable live over the control port.
.TP
.BI \-\-latency " MS"
Delay every forwarded chunk by \fIMS\fR milliseconds (a high\-RTT link).
.TP
.BI \-\-jitter " MS"
Delay every chunk by a uniform\-random 0..\fIMS\fR ms \(em the application\-layer
signature of reordered IP packets on a TCP stream.
.TP
.BI \-\-chunk " BYTES"
Split every forwarded write into \fBBYTES\fR\-sized segments (with egress
TCP_NODELAY) so the peer sees genuine partial reads / split PDUs.
.TP
.BI \-\-drip " 'BYTES MS'"
Forward \fIBYTES\fR, sleep \fIMS\fR, repeat \(em a slow, low\-speed stream.
.TP
.BI \-\-rate " KBPS"
Pace the stream to a ceiling of \fIKBPS\fR kilobytes per second (a bandwidth\-cap
slow link).
.TP
.BI \-\-lossy " PCT"
Sever the connection with probability \fIPCT\fR% per chunk (an
application\-visible reset).
\fIPCT\fR is a float honoured to 1 ppm.
.TP
.BI \-\-reorder " 'PCT [MS]'"
Hold back \fIPCT\fR% of chunks by \fIMS\fR ms (default 50) while later chunks
pass, so a fraction arrives late relative to its neighbours.
.TP
.BI \-\-corrupt " PCT"
Flip a random bit in \fIPCT\fR% of forwarded bytes \(em an on\-path (MITM)
tamper that a checksum\-verifying peer must detect.
.TP
.BI \-\-dup " PCT"
Deliver \fIPCT\fR% of chunks twice (a duplicate\-delivery idempotency probe).
.TP
.BI \-\-truncate\-at " BYTES"
Sever each connection once \fIBYTES\fR have flowed in the affected direction \(em
a deterministic mid\-transfer cut (for example a download that dies at 50%).
.TP
.BI \-\-fail\-nth " N"
Fail exactly the \fIN\fRth accepted connection and pass all others \(em a
deterministic single\-failure retry probe.
.TP
.BI \-\-heal\-after " MS"
Auto\-clear every lever \fIMS\fR ms after it is set (a transient fault window).
.TP
.B \-\-hang
Start as a black hole: accept connections but never relay, holding the client
open until it gives up.
.TP
.B \-\-block
Start blocked: refuse connections (an outage) until an
.B unblock
control command.
.SS Protocol surgery and oracle
Startup forms of the levers documented under
.B PROTOCOL SURGERY
and
.BR "ORACLE\-DRIVEN LEVERS" ;
each argument is the same string the matching control command takes.
.TP
.BI \-\-tls " 'SUB ...'"
Arm a TLS record\-surgery transform at startup (e.g.
.BR "\-\-tls 'fragment 2 up'" ).
.TP
.BI \-\-http " 'SUB ...'"
Arm an HTTP smuggling transform at startup (e.g.
.BR "\-\-http cl\-te" ).
.TP
.BI \-\-record " PATH"
Begin capturing the session to \fIPATH\fR immediately.
.TP
.BI \-\-replay " PATH"
Start in replay mode, answering clients from the capture at \fIPATH\fR with no
upstream.
.TP
.B \-\-enable\-exec
Arm the process\-spawning oracle used by
.B bisect
and
.BR recovery .
Off by default; without it those verbs refuse.  The control port is
unauthenticated, so enable this only for a trusted operator.
.SS Information
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-version ", " \-V
Print version and exit.
.SH CONTROL COMMANDS
Connect to the control port and write one command, terminated by a newline; the
proxy replies with \fBok\fR, a \fBstatus\fR line, or an error.
Append \fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, or \fBboth\fR to any byte\-level lever to target one
direction.
.TP
.B latency \fIMS\fR [\fIDIR\fR]
Delay every forwarded chunk by \fIMS\fR ms.
.TP
.B jitter \fIMS\fR [\fIDIR\fR]
Delay every chunk by a random 0..\fIMS\fR ms.
.TP
.B chunk \fIBYTES\fR [\fIDIR\fR]
Split forwarded writes into \fIBYTES\fR\-sized segments.
.TP
.B drip \fIBYTES\fR \fIMS\fR [\fIDIR\fR]
Forward \fIBYTES\fR then sleep \fIMS\fR ms, repeatedly.
.TP
.B rate \fIKBPS\fR [\fIDIR\fR]
Pace the stream to \fIKBPS\fR kilobytes per second.
.TP
.B lossy \fIPCT\fR [\fIDIR\fR]
Sever the stream with probability \fIPCT\fR% per chunk.
.TP
.B reorder \fIPCT\fR [\fIMS\fR] [\fIDIR\fR]
Hold back \fIPCT\fR% of chunks by \fIMS\fR ms (default 50).
.TP
.B corrupt \fIPCT\fR [\fIDIR\fR]
Flip a bit in \fIPCT\fR% of forwarded bytes.
.TP
.B dup \fIPCT\fR [\fIDIR\fR]
Deliver \fIPCT\fR% of chunks twice.
.TP
.B truncate\-at \fIBYTES\fR [\fIDIR\fR]
Sever each connection after \fIBYTES\fR have flowed in the direction.
.TP
.B fail\-nth \fIN\fR
Fail exactly the \fIN\fRth accepted connection.
.TP
.B heal\-after \fIMS\fR
Clear every lever \fIMS\fR ms from now.
.TP
.B one\-shot
Self\-heal (clear all levers) the instant the next sever or truncate fires.
.TP
.B abortive \fI0|1\fR
Select abortive RST (1) versus graceful FIN (0) for automatic severs.
.TP
.B drop
Graceful\-FIN sever every live connection now.
.TP
.B reset
Abortive\-RST sever every live connection now (and use RST for later
lossy/truncate severs).
.TP
.B half\-close
FIN the client\(->upstream path on live connections while the upstream\(->client
path keeps flowing (a half\-open probe).
.TP
.B hang
Make newly accepted connections black\-hole (accept but never relay).
.TP
.B unhang
Resume relaying newly accepted connections.
.TP
.B block
Drop live connections and refuse new ones (an outage window).
.TP
.B unblock
Resume accepting connections.
.TP
.B clear
Reset every lever, unblock, and unhang.
.TP
.B status
Report the current lever state and the traffic / fault counters (connections,
active, bytes each way, severs, corruptions, duplications, refusals).
.SH SECURITY
The control port is
.B unauthenticated:
anyone who can reach it can pull the fault levers and reset live connections.
Both the listen and control sockets therefore bind to
.B loopback
by default.
Widening the bind address with
.B \-\-bind
is refused unless
.B \-\-insecure\-bind
is also given, and even then prints a warning.
Never expose the control port to an untrusted network.
.SH LOSS, CORRUPTION, AND REORDERING MODEL
Packet loss is modelled as a connection sever, not as byte drops: removing bytes
from an already\-ACKed TCP stream would corrupt it rather than emulate loss
(which lives below TCP).
For the same reason true out\-of\-order packet delivery cannot be emulated by
reordering bytes \(em TCP reassembles segments in order below the proxy, so the
peer only ever sees the in\-order stream.
What IP reordering actually does to a TCP application is add variable latency,
which is exactly what
.B jitter
and
.B reorder
inject, faithfully and without root.
By contrast
.B corrupt
.I is
a real in\-band byte mutation \(em what an active on\-path attacker (or a flaky
NIC past the TCP checksum) does, and precisely what an application\-layer
checksum exists to catch.
.SH EXTENDED MITM AND DOS LEVERS
Beyond the transport\-shaping levers above, and still without root, the proxy can
act as an active on\-path attacker \(em rewriting, splicing, deleting and
duplicating bytes, forging identity, and squeezing the transport \(em to harden a
service exposed to the open internet.
All are settable at startup (matching \fB\-\-flag\fR) and live over the control
port, and all are reset by
.B clear
and reported by
.BR status .
.TP
.B replace \fIFIND\fR \fIREPL\fR [up|down]
Rewrite every non\-overlapping occurrence of \fIFIND\fR to \fIREPL\fR on the wire
(lengths may differ) \(em mangle a Content\-Length, flip a status line, poison a
checksum, or inject a header.  \fIFIND\fR/\fIREPL\fR are byte payloads:
.BR hex: \fIdeadbeef\fR " or " str: \fItext\fR
with \fB\\r \\n \\t \\0 \\xNN \\\\\fR escapes.
Matching is within a single relayed buffer (up to 64 KiB).
.TP
.B inject \fIPAYLOAD\fR [up|down]
Splice \fIPAYLOAD\fR (same \fBhex:\fR/\fBstr:\fR form) in front of the next
forwarded chunk \(em a one\-shot request/response smuggling primitive.
.TP
.B drop-bytes \fIPCT\fR [up|down]
Silently delete \fIPCT\fR%% of forwarded bytes \(em a framing desync / length
mismatch (distinct from
.BR corrupt ,
which preserves length).
.TP
.B repeat-bytes \fIPCT\fR [up|down]
Duplicate \fIPCT\fR%% of forwarded bytes (length inflation).
.TP
.B delay-first \fIMS\fR [up|down]
Delay only the opening chunk of each direction (slow first byte / slow header).
.TP
.B mss \fIBYTES\fR
Clamp the TCP maximum segment size on both legs so the peer must cope with many
tiny segments.
.TP
.B rcvbuf \fIBYTES\fR " | " sndbuf \fIBYTES\fR
Squeeze SO_RCVBUF / SO_SNDBUF to force a tiny receive window (silly\-window /
flow\-control stress) or a small send buffer.
.TP
.B stall \fR[up|down] | \fBunstall \fR[up|down]
Stop (or resume) reading a direction so the peer's send buffer fills \(em real TCP
backpressure, applied without ever severing the connection.
.TP
.B max-lifetime \fIMS\fR
Guillotine every connection once it has lived \fIMS\fR milliseconds, regardless of
progress (a recurring, time\-based cut).
.TP
.B proxy-header \fIv1\fR|\fIv2\fR \fISRC\fR [\fIDST\fR]
Prepend a forged PROXY\-protocol (v1 text or v2 binary) header to the upstream
stream, spoofing the client source \fISRC\fR ("ip:port"; \fIDST\fR defaults to the
proxy's own listen address) \(em tests whether a service wrongly trusts the
PROXY protocol from an untrusted peer.
.B off
disables it.
.TP
.B chaos \fIMS\fR | off
Autonomous chaos monkey: every \fIMS\fR milliseconds apply a random lever within
safe bounds, for long soak / fuzz runs.  Deterministic under
.BR \-\-seed .
.SH ATTACK-MOCKING LEVERS
These levers compose the primitives above into behaviours that mock a hostile
client or network deliberately trying to topple the service behind the proxy.
They remain root\-free and are driven over the same control port.
.TP
.B trigger[\-once] \fIDIR PATTERN COMMAND\fR | off
Content trigger / response oracle.  When
.I PATTERN
(a
.BR hex: / str:
payload, as for
.BR inject )
is observed crossing the wire in direction
.I DIR
.RB ( up ,
.BR down ,
or
.BR both ),
the control
.I COMMAND
is executed through the same parser as the live control port.
.B \-once
fires a single time then disarms.  Use it to react to a protocol handshake,
banner, or record boundary \(em e.g. sever, corrupt, or block the moment a login
succeeds.  The command is a control verb, never a shell line.
.TP
.B mangle\-len \fIDIR OFFSET\fR \fBset\fR|\fBadd\fR|\fBsub\fR \fIVAL\fR | off
Forge a big\-endian 32\-bit length field at byte
.I OFFSET
of each buffer in direction
.IR DIR :
.B set
it to
.IR VAL ,
or
.BR add / sub
.I VAL
from the on\-wire value \(em desynchronising a length\-prefixed framing so the
peer under\-reads, over\-reads, or waits forever for bytes that never come.
.TP
.B accept\-pause \fIMS\fR
Delay every
.BR accept (2)
by
.I MS
milliseconds, letting the kernel accept queue fill and exercising the client's
connect\-timeout and the server's backlog handling.
.TP
.B fanout \fIN\fR
For each accepted client connection, open
.I N
additional upstream connections and hold them, amplifying connection\-pool and
file\-descriptor pressure on the target (mocks a connection\-exhaustion attack).
Capped at 16.
.TP
.B global\-rate \fIKBPS\fR
A single shared token bucket capping aggregate throughput across
.I all
connections at
.I KBPS
kilobits/s \(em unlike the per\-direction
.B rate
lever, this models a congested uplink every client must share.
.TP
.B flap \fIUP_MS DOWN_MS\fR | off
Cycle the listener in and out of service like a flapping load\-balancer member:
serve for
.I UP_MS
then block (severing connections) for
.IR DOWN_MS ,
repeating until disarmed.
.B clear
and
.B off
stop the background thread and restore service.
.TP
.B ramp \fILEVER START END MS\fR
Sweep a numeric
.I LEVER
(e.g.
.BR latency ,
.BR rate ,
.BR lossy )
linearly from
.I START
to
.I END
over
.I MS
milliseconds in 20 steps \(em a gradually degrading link or a server warming up
under load, rather than a step change.
.TP
.B preset \fINAME\fR | list
Apply a named profile expanding to several levers at once.
.B list
enumerates them.  Realism profiles:
.BR satellite ,
.BR hotel\-wifi ,
.BR 3g\-lossy ,
.BR transoceanic ,
.BR congested ,
.BR bufferbloat .
Attack profiles designed to topple a target:
.BR slowloris ,
.BR slowread ,
.BR rst\-flood ,
.BR truncate\-bomb ,
.BR corrupt\-storm ,
.BR pool\-exhaust ,
.BR smuggle ,
.BR black\-hole ,
.BR lb\-flap .
.TP
.B status json
Emit a compact single\-line JSON snapshot of the key counters and active levers,
for test harnesses and dashboards.
.SH PROTOCOL SURGERY
These levers rewrite the two protocols an internet\-facing cache actually speaks
\(em they operate on structure, not just opaque bytes, so they can forge the exact
malformations a hostile peer would send.  Each takes an optional trailing
.BR up / down / both
direction (default
.BR both ).
.TP
.B tls \fBset\-type\fR \fITYPE\fR | \fBfragment\fR \fILEN\fR | \fBset\-version\fR \fIMAJ MIN\fR | \fBinflate\fR \fIDELTA\fR | \fBdrop\-type\fR \fITYPE\fR | \fBflip\fR | \fBalert\fR \fILEVEL DESC\fR | off
TLS record\-layer surgery on the 5\-byte record header
.RB ( type ,
version, length) and its payload, walked record by record:
.B set\-type
relabels the content\-type byte (e.g. application\-data 23 \(->\ alert 21);
.B fragment
re\-emits each payload as multiple \fILEN\fR\-byte records (splitting a handshake
message across records to slip past naive inspection);
.B set\-version
downgrades the advertised version;
.B inflate
adds \fIDELTA\fR to the on\-wire length so the peer waits for bytes that never come;
.B drop\-type
deletes every record of a content type;
.B flip
corrupts one payload byte per record (breaking the record MAC);
.B alert
injects a one\-shot forged alert record.
.TP
.B http \fBcl\-te\fR | \fBte\-cl\fR | \fBdup\-cl\fR \fIVAL\fR | \fBobfuscate\-te\fR \fB1\fR|\fB2\fR|\fB3\fR | \fBnaked\-lf\fR | \fBinject\-header\fR \fINAME VAL\fR | \fBappend\fR \fIBYTES\fR | off
HTTP/1.1 request\-smuggling engine, operating on the header block up to the
.B CRLFCRLF
terminator:
.B cl\-te
and
.B te\-cl
stamp a conflicting
.B Content\-Length
plus chunked
.B Transfer\-Encoding
so a front and back end disagree on where the request ends;
.B dup\-cl
adds a second, differing Content\-Length;
.B obfuscate\-te
mangles a present Transfer\-Encoding header name (1 = space before colon, 2 =
leading tab, 3 = underscore) to smuggle it past strict parsers;
.B naked\-lf
re\-terminates lines with a bare LF;
.B inject\-header
and
.B append
add a header or trailing bytes.  A buffer with no header terminator passes
through untouched.
.SH SESSION RECORD AND REPLAY
.TP
.B record \fIPATH\fR | off
Capture the exact post\-transform byte timeline of every relayed connection to
.I PATH
(framed
.BR BFPR\ v1 :
per record a direction, a millisecond timestamp, and the bytes), then
.BR off .
.TP
.B replay \fIPATH\fR | \fBdir\fR \fBup\fR|\fBdown\fR | off
Load a capture and act as a synthetic peer: each new client is answered from the
recorded byte timeline
.RB ( dir
selects which direction's bytes to emit) with
.I no
live upstream at all \(em deterministic reproduction of a past session, including
one that a now\-dead server produced.
.SH ORACLE\-DRIVEN LEVERS
.B bisect
and
.B recovery
ask a yes/no question of the system under test by running an operator probe and
reading its exit code (0 = pass).  Because that spawns a process from the
unauthenticated control port, both are
.B double\-gated
on
.BR \-\-enable\-exec :
without the flag they refuse.  The probe runs via
.B /bin/sh \-c
in its own process group (killed as a group on timeout) with the proxy's
descriptors closed, so it never pins the very sockets it is testing.
.TP
.B bisect \fILEVER LO HI TIMEOUT_MS ORACLE\-CMD\fR
Binary\-search the smallest integer value of fault lever
.I LEVER
in
.RI [ LO , HI ]
at which
.I ORACLE\-CMD
reproduces the bug (exits non\-zero), assuming severity is monotonic.  Poll
.B bisect\-result
for progress and the minimal reproducing value.
.TP
.B recovery \fIFAULT\-CMD\fR | \fIHOLD_MS\fR | \fIPROBE\-CMD\fR | \fITIMEOUT_MS\fR
Apply
.IR FAULT\-CMD ,
hold it for
.I HOLD_MS
milliseconds, clear it, then poll
.I PROBE\-CMD
until it passes \(em asserting the service recovers \(em or report
.B STUCK
after
.IR TIMEOUT_MS .
Poll
.BR recovery\-result .
.SH PRIVILEGED (ROOT) LEVERS
The base proxy is deliberately root\-free, but the faults above that genuinely
live \fIbelow\fR TCP \(em real IP packet loss, reordering, duplication and
single\-bit corruption; an on\-path RST or ICMP unreachable; a next\-hop MTU
black hole \(em cannot be emulated honestly in userland.
An opt\-in, root\-gated subsystem adds them.
It is armed only when \fBboth\fR euid 0 \fBand\fR
.B \-\-privileged
are given (root alone does not arm it); optionally
.B \-\-priv\-iface \fIIFACE\fR
names the NIC that the netem/mtu levers act on.
Every external command is run via
.BR execvp (3)
with an explicit argument vector \(em never a shell \(em and interface names and
numeric operands are validated before use.
All host state it installs (a
.B tc netem
qdisc, an
.B nft
table named \fBbrix_fault_proxy\fR, and any shrunk NIC MTU) is
.B automatically removed
on every exit path, including SIGINT and SIGTERM.
.PP
Privileged control commands (prefix every one with \fBpriv\fR):
.TP
.B priv netem delay \fIMS\fR [\fIJIT\fR] [\fICORR%\fR] [normal|pareto]
Real link delay/jitter with an optional correlation and delay distribution.
.TP
.B priv netem loss \fIPCT\fR [\fICORR%\fR]
Real random IP packet loss (forces genuine TCP retransmits, not a sever).
.TP
.B priv netem loss\-gemodel \fIP\fR [\fIR\fR] [\fI1\-H\fR] [\fI1\-K\fR]
Bursty Gilbert\-Elliott loss \(em the correlated drops of a real bad\-wifi tail.
.TP
.B priv netem corrupt \fIPCT\fR
Real single\-bit \fIpacket\fR corruption (the kernel damages the frame; the TCP
checksum drops it, forcing a retransmit) \(em distinct from the userland
.B corrupt
lever, which tampers \fIpast\fR the checksum like an on\-path attacker.
.TP
.B priv netem duplicate \fIPCT\fR
Real packet duplication.
.TP
.B priv netem reorder \fIPCT\fR [\fICORR%\fR]
Genuine out\-of\-order \fIpacket\fR delivery (needs a
.B delay
to take effect) \(em the thing byte\-reordering provably cannot fake.
.TP
.B priv netem rate \fIRATE\fR | limit \fIPKTS\fR | clear | show
Token\-bucket rate ceiling, queue limit, remove all netem, or print the current
netem fragment string.
.TP
.B priv cut \fIMODE\fR [up|down]
Install an
.B nft
rule scoped to this proxy's own ports that hands the kernel a verdict for the
chosen direction.
.I MODE
is
.BR rst " (a correctly\-sequenced RST \(em an on\-path reset attack), "
.BR drop " (a true silent black hole: the peer retransmits into the void, unlike"
.BR hang ", which still completes the handshake), or "
.BR icmp\-admin / icmp\-host / icmp\-net / icmp\-port
(a forged ICMP unreachable).
.TP
.B priv uncut
Remove the cut rules.
.TP
.B priv mtu \fIBYTES\fR | restore
Shrink the NIC MTU (a PMTU black hole / forced\-fragmentation stressor no relay
can fake), or restore the saved MTU.
.TP
.B priv clear | status
Remove every privileged fault at once, or report the subsystem state.
.PP
.B WARNING:
these levers mutate host\-global network state on the named interface. Point
.B \-\-priv\-iface
at a test NIC (or run the proxy inside a network namespace) so a mistake cannot
degrade production traffic. The netem levers require the kernel
.B sch_netem
module; the cut levers require
.BR nft (8).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Relay to an upstream cache, control on 11941
brix\-fault\-proxy \-\-listen 11940 \-\-target cache.example:1094 \-\-control 11941

# Start with 50 ms latency already applied
brix\-fault\-proxy \-l 11940 \-t cache.example:1094 \-c 11941 \-\-latency 50

# Round\-robin over two upstreams with per\-connection failover
brix\-fault\-proxy \-l 11940 \-t a.example:1094 \-t b.example:1094 \-c 11941

# Positional shorthand
brix\-fault\-proxy 11940 cache.example 1094 11941

# Tamper the download path only (MITM bit\-flips) live
printf 'corrupt 0.01 down\\n' | nc \-q1 127.0.0.1 11941

# Deterministically cut every download at 5 MiB
printf 'truncate\-at 5242880 down\\n' | nc \-q1 127.0.0.1 11941
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on a clean terminal action (\fB\-\-help\fR / \fB\-\-version\fR) or normal exit.
1 on a runtime failure (a listen/control bind failed).
2 on a command\-line error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrootdfs (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
