.TH BRIX-ENV 7 "2026" "nginx-xrootd" "BriX Client Environment"
.SH NAME
brix\-env \- environment variables recognised by the BriX client tools
.SH DESCRIPTION
The BriX client tools (xrdcp, xrdfs, xrddiag, xrdcksum, xrdprep, brixMount,
and friends) honour the variables listed in this page.
.PP
\fBAlias chains.\fR
Some concepts have both a canonical \fBXRDC_*\fR name and one or more legacy
\fBXrdSec*\fR names for backwards compatibility.
The canonical name always takes precedence.
When two names in the same chain are set to \fIdifferent\fR values and stderr
is an interactive terminal, the tools emit exactly one note line naming both
variables and the winner; no note is emitted to non-interactive stderr (pipes,
cron jobs, redirected output).
Set \fBBRIX_NO_HINTS\fR to suppress all such notes.
.PP
\fBSecret safety.\fR
Divergence notes print only variable \fInames\fR, never values.
.SH CREDENTIAL VARIABLES
.TP
.B XRDC_SSS_KEYTAB
.TQ
.B XrdSecSSSKT
.TQ
.B XrdSecsssKT
Path to the SSS keytab file.
Canonical: \fBXRDC_SSS_KEYTAB\fR (highest precedence); legacy aliases are
\fBXrdSecSSSKT\fR and \fBXrdSecsssKT\fR (differ only by case of "sss").
Default: \fI~/.xrd/sss.keytab\fR.
Consumers: all tools that use SSS authentication.
.TP
.B XRDC_PWD
.TQ
.B XrdSecCREDS
Password credential for the \fBpwd\fR auth module.
\fBXRDC_PWD\fR is a literal plaintext password (canonical, highest precedence).
\fBXrdSecCREDS\fR is the stock hex-encoded blob with layout
\fI"&pwd"\ex00<4-byte-prefix><password>\fR.
Both remain accepted forever.
Default: none (password auth disabled when unset).
Consumers: \fBxrdcp\fR, \fBxrdfs\fR, and any tool that connects to a pwd-secured server.
.TP
.B XRDC_PWD_USER
Username for \fBpwd\fR authentication.
No legacy alias.
Falls back to \fBUSER\fR when unset.
Consumers: same as \fBXRDC_PWD\fR above.
.TP
.B BEARER_TOKEN
Standard bearer (SciToken/WLCG) token value as a literal string.
No alias added (ecosystem convention, not ours to fork).
Default: none.
Consumers: \fBxrdcp\fR, \fBxrdfs\fR, \fBxrddiag\fR, \fBxrootdfs\fR.
.TP
.B BEARER_TOKEN_FILE
Path to a file containing a bearer token.
No alias added (ecosystem convention).
Default: none.
Consumers: same as \fBBEARER_TOKEN\fR.
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
Path to a GSI proxy certificate.
No alias added (standard VOMS/GSI ecosystem variable).
Default: \fI/tmp/x509up_u<UID>\fR.
Consumers: all tools that use GSI authentication.
.TP
.B X509_USER_CERT
Path to the user GSI certificate.
No alias added.
Default: \fI~/.globus/usercert.pem\fR.
Consumers: \fBxrdgsiproxy\fR, \fBxrdgsitest\fR, GSI auth.
.TP
.B X509_USER_KEY
Path to the user GSI private key.
No alias added.
Default: \fI~/.globus/userkey.pem\fR.
Consumers: same as \fBX509_USER_CERT\fR.
.TP
.B KRB5CCNAME
Kerberos 5 credential cache name.
No alias added (standard MIT/Heimdal variable).
Default: inherited from Kerberos runtime.
Consumers: tools built with \fBBRIX_HAVE_KRB5\fR (Kerberos optional dep).
.TP
.B AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
.TQ
.B AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
.TQ
.B AWS_SESSION_TOKEN
S3/SigV4 credentials.
No aliases added (AWS ecosystem convention).
Default: none.
Consumers: S3 protocol path (xrdcp to s3:// endpoints, xrdstorascan).
.SH TUNING VARIABLES
These are canonical \fBXRDC_*\fR names with no legacy aliases.
.TP
.B XRDC_MAX_STALL_MS
Maximum milliseconds to wait for a stalled read before declaring the
connection dead (integer).
Default: 30000 (30 s).
Consumers: all tools that use the root:// connection layer.
.TP
.B XRDC_IO_URING
Set to \fB1\fR to enable the io_uring async I/O engine when the build
includes \fBliburing\fR support.
Default: \fB0\fR (disabled; epoll/pread path used).
Consumers: xrdcp, xrdfs, and the library's AIO layer.
.TP
.B XRDC_IO_URING_LOOP
Maximum number of io_uring completions to process per event loop tick.
Default: \fB64\fR.
Consumers: same as \fBXRDC_IO_URING\fR.
.TP
.B XRDC_NO_IPV6_FALLBACK
Set to \fB1\fR to disable the automatic IPv4 fallback when an IPv6 connect
fails.
Default: \fB0\fR (fallback enabled).
Consumers: all tools that resolve hostnames.
.TP
.B XRDC_BACKOFF_BASE_MS
Base retry backoff in milliseconds (doubles on each retry).
Default: \fB500\fR.
Consumers: resilient connection layer.
.TP
.B XRDC_GSI_VERSION
Override the GSI protocol version advertised during the handshake.
Default: determined by the server's capability flags.
Consumers: GSI authentication.
.TP
.B XRDC_GSI_DELEGATE
Set to \fB1\fR to request GSI proxy delegation during the handshake.
Default: \fB0\fR.
Consumers: GSI authentication (xrdcp, xrdfs, xrdgsitest).
.SH TOOL-SPECIFIC VARIABLES
.TP
.B XRDSTORASCAN_PASSWORD
Dashboard password for \fBxrdstorascan\fR's reporting endpoint.
No alias.
Default: none.
Consumers: \fBxrdstorascan\fR only.
.TP
.B OIDC_ACCOUNT
OIDC account name for token refresh.
No alias.
Default: none.
Consumers: \fBxrddiag\fR token-refresh subcommand.
.TP
.B XRDRC
Override path for the \fI~/.xrdrc\fR endpoint-alias file.
No alias.
Default: \fI~/.xrdrc\fR.
Consumers: all tools (alias resolution at startup).
.TP
.B BRIX_VMP
Override the virtual mount point advertised by the brixMount FUSE driver.
No alias.
Default: determined from the mount target directory.
Consumers: \fBbrixMount\fR, \fBxrootdfs\fR.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_CACHE_DIR
Override the directory used for the CVMFS chunk cache.
No alias.
Default: \fI~/.cache/brixcvmfs\fR (or \fBTMPDIR\fR/\fBbrixcvmfs\fR when
\fI~/.cache\fR is not writable).
Consumers: \fBbrixMount cvmfs\fR, \fBbrixMount cvmfs-rw\fR.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_CACHE_SIZE_MB
Maximum size of the CVMFS chunk cache in MiB.
No alias.
Default: \fB4096\fR.
Consumers: \fBbrixMount cvmfs\fR, \fBbrixMount cvmfs-rw\fR.
.TP
.B BRIXCVMFS_REPOS
Colon-separated list of CVMFS repository names to pre-populate at mount time.
No alias.
Default: none (repositories are discovered on access).
Consumers: \fBbrixMount cvmfs\fR.
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Standard POSIX temporary directory.
No alias.
Used by tools that create staging areas or credential temporary files.
Default: \fI/tmp\fR.
.SH HINT SUPPRESSION
.TP
.B BRIX_NO_HINTS
Set to any value other than \fB0\fR to suppress all TTY-gated hints and notes.
Set to \fB0\fR or leave unset to enable hints on interactive terminals.
This variable is checked once per process at startup; changing it mid-process
has no effect.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Endpoint alias file; override with \fBXRDRC\fR.
.TP
.I ~/.xrd/sss.keytab
Default SSS keytab location; override with \fBXRDC_SSS_KEYTAB\fR.
.TP
.I /tmp/x509up_u<UID>
Default GSI proxy location; override with \fBX509_USER_PROXY\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrd (1),
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrddiag (1),
.BR xrdgsiproxy (1),
.BR brixMount (1)
