.TH XRD 1 "2026" "nginx-xrootd" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrd \- unified git-style front-end for the native XRootD/WLCG toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrd
.I command
[\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrd
dispatches a single command to the right native tool so users learn one entry
point. Transfer verbs map to
.BR xrdcp ,
filesystem verbs to
.BR xrdfs ,
diagnostics to
.BR xrddiag ;
\fImount\fR drives the FUSE3 driver, and \fIdoctor\fR/\fIlogin\fR compose
credential helpers in-process. \fI~/.xrdrc\fR aliases are resolved everywhere.
.PP
Filesystem verbs accept either a bare endpoint plus a path, or a full
\fIroot://host[:port]//path\fR URL (or an alias resolving to one), which is split
into the connect endpoint and the path. Multi-path verbs (\fBmv\fR, \fBln\fR)
require every path to be on the same endpoint. Flags may precede the endpoint
(e.g. \fBxrd df -h root://h//\fR, \fBxrd ln -s root://h//t root://h//l\fR).
.SH TRANSFER
.TP
.B xrd cp \fR[opts] \fIsrc\fR... \fIdst\fR
Copy (\fB-> xrdcp\fR; supports \fB-r -j --sync --from\fR ...).
.TP
.B xrd get \fIurl\fR \fR[\fIlocaldst\fR]
Download a file (default destination: current directory).
.TP
.B xrd put \fIlocalfile\fR \fIurl\fR
Upload a file.
.TP
.B xrd upload \fR[\fBbs=\fIN\fR] [\fBrate=\fIR\fR] [\fB-f\fR] \fIlocalfile\fR|\fB-\fR \fIurl\fR
Write a local file (or stdin) to a remote path, optionally rate-limited
(\fBrate=\fR accepts a K/M/G suffix; token-bucket pacing). \fB-f\fR overwrites.
.TP
.B xrd download \fR[\fBbs=\fIN\fR] [\fBrate=\fIR\fR] [\fB-f\fR] \fIurl\fR [\fIlocaldst\fR|\fB-\fR]
Read a remote file to a local file (or stdout), optionally rate-limited. The
destination defaults to the remote basename in the current directory; \fB-f\fR
overwrites. The throttled counterpart to \fBget\fR.
.TP
.B xrd sync \fIsrcdir\fR \fIdstdir\fR
Recursively mirror a tree, skipping same-size files (\fB-> xrdcp -r --sync\fR).
Extra flags after the operands pass through to \fBxrdcp\fR.
.SH FILESYSTEM
.TP
.B xrd ls \fR[\fB-l\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fIpath\fR]
List a directory; \fB-l\fR long form, \fB-R\fR recursive, \fB-h\fR human sizes.
.TP
.B xrd stat \fIpath\fR
Show id, size, mtime, and flags.
.TP
.B xrd du \fR[\fB-h\fR] \fIpath\fR...
Recursive size and file/dir counts.
.TP
.B xrd df \fR[\fB-h\fR] [\fIpath\fR]
Friendly disk-space report (Size/Used/Avail/Use%/Largest) from the server's
\fIkXR_Qspace\fR \fIoss.*\fR record. \fB-h\fR humanizes the byte columns. An
unrecognized reply is printed verbatim. For cluster-wide per-holder space use
.BR xrdmapc .
.TP
.B xrd tree \fR[\fB-d\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fIN\fR] [\fIpath\fR]
Visual directory tree.
.TP
.B xrd find \fIpath\fR \fR[\fB-name\fR \fIGLOB\fR] [\fB-type\fR f|d] [\fB-size\fR +N|-N]
Recursive predicate search.
.TP
.B xrd mkdir \fR[\fB-p\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR] \fIpath\fR
.TQ
.B xrd rm \fIpath\fR
.TQ
.B xrd rmdir \fIpath\fR
.TQ
.B xrd mv \fIsrc\fR \fIdst\fR
.TQ
.B xrd truncate \fIpath\fR \fIsize\fR
Namespace mutations.
.TP
.B xrd chmod \fR[\fB-R\fR] \fIpath\fR \fIoctal-mode\fR
Change permissions (octal modes only; \fB-R\fR recurses). Symbolic modes
(\fIu+x\fR) are not supported: the XRootD wire stat does not expose the current
permission bits, so there is no base for relative changes.
.TP
.B xrd touch \fR[\fB-c\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-m\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fISTAMP\fR] \fIpath\fR
Create the file if absent (unless \fB-c\fR) and set its access/modification
times (default: both to now). \fB-a\fR/\fB-m\fR restrict to atime/mtime;
\fB-t\fR sets an explicit \fI[[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm[.ss]\fR time. Never changes
ownership.
.TP
.B xrd ln \fR[\fB-s\fR] [\fB-f\fR] \fItarget\fR \fIlinkpath\fR
Create a hard link, or a symbolic link with \fB-s\fR (GNU order: target first).
\fB-f\fR removes an existing \fIlinkpath\fR first. A symlink target is stored
verbatim (link content); only \fIlinkpath\fR is confined.
.TP
.B xrd readlink \fIpath\fR
Print a symlink's target.
.TP
.B xrd cat \fIpath\fR
.TQ
.B xrd head \fR[\fB-c\fR \fIBYTES\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fILINES\fR] \fIpath\fR
Print the start of a file; \fB-c\fR (bytes) takes precedence over \fB-n\fR
(lines, default 10).
.TQ
.B xrd tail \fR[\fB-c\fR \fIBYTES\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fILINES\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB--interval\fR \fIS\fR] \fIpath\fR
Print the end of a file. \fB-f\fR follows by polling every \fIS\fR seconds
(default 1; SIGINT to stop). Polling, not inotify.
.TP
.B xrd wc \fR[\fB-c\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-w\fR] \fIpath\fR
Count bytes/lines/words (no flag = all three). \fB-c\fR alone is answered from
\fBstat\fR without reading the file.
.TP
.B xrd grep \fR[\fB-i\fR] [\fB-n\fR] \fIPATTERN\fR \fIpath\fR
POSIX-regex line match over a streamed file (\fB-i\fR case-insensitive,
\fB-n\fR line numbers). Reads the whole file. Exit 0 if any line matched, 1 if none.
.TP
.B xrd hexdump \fR[\fB-n\fR \fIBYTES\fR] \fIpath\fR
xxd-style hex + ASCII dump; \fB-n\fR caps the bytes shown.
.TP
.B xrd dd \fR[\fBif=\fR]\fIpath\fR [\fBbs=\fIN\fR] [\fBskip=\fIN\fR] [\fBcount=\fIN\fR] [\fBrate=\fIR\fR]
Read a windowed, optionally rate-limited slice of a remote file to stdout. The
window starts at \fIskip\fR*\fIbs\fR and is \fIcount\fR*\fIbs\fR bytes (\fIbs\fR
default 1 MiB; \fIcount\fR omitted = to EOF). \fBrate=\fR throttles via token-bucket
pacing of the read loop (this back-pressures the server through TCP flow control;
it is not a hardware shaper). For a download-to-file see \fBdownload\fR.
.TP
.B xrd cmp \fIpath1\fR \fIpath2\fR
Compare two files on the same endpoint. Fast path: server checksums (no bulk
transfer); byte-exact fallback otherwise. Quiet + exit 0 if identical, exit 1 if not.
.TP
.B xrd cksum \fR[\fB-a\fR \fIalgo\fR] \fIpath\fR
Print the server-side checksum (\fIadler32\fR default; \fIcrc32c\fR/\fIcrc64\fR/
\fIcrc64nvme\fR/\fImd5\fR). Output: \fIalgo hex path\fR.
.TP
.B xrd xattr \fBls\fR|\fBget\fR|\fBset\fR|\fBrm\fR \fIpath\fR [\fIname\fR] [\fIvalue\fR]
Extended attributes (\fIkXR_fattr\fR). \fBls\fR lists names, \fBget\fR prints a
value, \fBset\fR stores one, \fBrm\fR deletes one. Names round-trip between
\fBls\fR and \fBget\fR/\fBset\fR.
.TP
.B xrd stage \fR[\fB--wait\fR[=\fISECS\fR]] \fIpath\fR...
Request tape/disk staging (\fIkXR_prepare\fR+\fIkXR_stage\fR); \fB--wait\fR polls
residency until online (default timeout 300 s).
.TP
.B xrd evict \fIpath\fR...
Request eviction from disk cache (\fIkXR_prepare\fR+\fIkXR_evict\fR).
.TP
.B xrd locate \fR| \fBquery\fR | \fBstatvfs\fR | \fBprepare\fR | \fBexplain\fR
Lower-level XRootD operations (passed through to \fBxrdfs\fR).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B xrd diag \fIsubcommand\fR \fR[args]
Run a diagnostic (\fB-> xrddiag\fR: check/bench/watch/srr/tape/...).
.TP
.B xrd ping \fR[\fB-c\fR \fICOUNT\fR] \fIendpoint\fR
Connect once, then time \fICOUNT\fR (default 4) stat round-trips to / and report
min/avg/max RTT.
.TP
.B xrd certinfo \fIendpoint\fR
Report the server's host certificate: subject/issuer/SAN, validity window,
days-until-expiry, and hostname match. Connects over TLS (per the scheme) without
authenticating and without rejecting an untrusted/expired cert, so it can inspect
any cert; a cleartext \fBroot://\fR endpoint reports "no certificate". Exit nonzero
if the cert is expired or not yet valid.
.TP
.B xrd clockskew \fIendpoint\fR
Report the client<->server clock offset and round-trip time. Uses the HTTP
\fBDate\fR header for \fBhttp(s)\fR/\fBdav(s)\fR endpoints (read-only) and a
create+stat probe for \fBroot://\fR (needs write). Warns past 60 s of skew (where
bearer-token \fIexp\fR/\fInbf\fR and GSI/proxy validity start failing) and exits
nonzero past 5 min. ~1 s resolution.
.TP
.B xrd whoami \fIendpoint\fR
Show the negotiated authentication protocol and the identity you are presenting
(local bearer-token subject / GSI proxy DN). For debugging authz.
.TP
.B xrd caps \fIendpoint\fR
Server role plus the \fIkXR_Qconfig\fR capability matrix (checksum types, readv,
tpc/tpcdlg, xrdfs.ext, …); \fI0\fR means unset/unsupported.
.TP
.B xrd replicas \fIurl\fR
Cluster holder + free-space map for a path (\fB-> xrdmapc\fR).
.TP
.B xrd doctor \fR[\fIendpoint\fR] [\fB--rw\fR] [\fB--also\fR \fIurl\fR]... [\fB--insecure\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
One-stop endpoint health. For each endpoint it reports the connect/auth/TLS posture,
server host-cert validity (\fBcertinfo\fR), clock skew (\fBclockskew\fR), and the
capability matrix (\fBcaps\fR), plus local credential presence/validity, AND runs a
functional method battery:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
read-only by default — stat, dirlist, statvfs, query-config, and a path-confinement
negative check;
.IP \(bu 3
with \fB--rw\fR, a full write cycle — mkdir, write, read-back+byte-verify, readv,
server-vs-local checksum, setattr-times, xattr get/set/del, symlink+readlink, rename,
truncate, rm, rmdir — under a temp dir that is cleaned up.
.RE
.IP
\fB--also\fR \fIurl\fR (repeatable) adds another protocol face so one run covers
\fBroot://\fR, \fBdavs://\fR/\fBhttps://\fR (WebDAV: OPTIONS/PROPFIND + rw
MKCOL/PUT/GET-verify/MOVE/DELETE) and \fBs3://\fR (ListObjectsV2 + rw signed
PUT/GET-verify/DELETE). \fB--insecure\fR skips TLS chain/host verification for the
probes. \fB--json\fR emits the entire report — cert, clock, caps, credentials, and a
\fItests\fR array of per-protocol per-method results — as one JSON object. WebDAV
bearer creds come from the discovered token; S3 from \fBAWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID\fR/
\fBAWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY\fR/\fBAWS_DEFAULT_REGION\fR. Exit nonzero on a fatal local
cred problem, a failed connect, an expired server cert, clock skew over 5 min, or any
failed functional check.
.TP
.B xrd login \fR[\fB--oidc-account\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB--read\fR]
Acquire/refresh a bearer token and/or GSI proxy.
.SH FUSE MOUNTS
.TP
.B xrd mount \fR[\fB--legacy\fR] \fIendpoint\fR \fImountpoint\fR \fR[fuse-opts]
Mount an XRootD export via the resilient
.B xrootdfs
driver (\fB--legacy\fR selects its synchronous fallback mode).
.TP
.B xrd mount \fR| \fBxrd mounts\fR | \fBxrd mount -l\fR
List active XRootD FUSE mounts (endpoint, mountpoint, driver), parsed from
\fI/proc/self/mountinfo\fR. Linux-only.
.TP
.B xrd unmount \fR[\fB-z\fR] \fImountpoint\fR
Unmount (prefers \fBfusermount3\fR, then \fBfusermount\fR, then \fBumount\fR;
\fB-z\fR lazy-detach).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Variables tagged \fB(EXPANDED)\fR are extensions specific to this project's
native clients; they do not exist in, and have no effect on, a vanilla upstream
XRootD client \(em do not rely on them elsewhere.
.TP
.BR XRD_MOUNTINFO_PATH " (EXPANDED)"
Override the mountinfo file parsed by \fBxrd mount\fR listing (used by tests).
.TP
.B BEARER_TOKEN\fR, \fBOIDC_ACCOUNT
Consumed by the credential helpers behind \fBdoctor\fR/\fBlogin\fR.
.TP
.BR XRDC_NO_IPV6_FALLBACK " (EXPANDED)"
By default, on a dual-stack host whose IPv6 path is broken but whose IPv4 backend
works, every native tool (this driver, \fBxrdcp\fR, \fBxrdfs\fR, the \fBxrootdfs\fR
mounts, \fBxrddiag\fR \(em all libbrix clients) downgrades the whole run to
IPv4-only and logs it once to standard error. It triggers either when an IPv6
connect fails where IPv4 then succeeds, or when a connection that came up over
IPv6 fails over the wire; thereafter IPv6 is skipped on every connection. Set
this variable to \fB1\fR to disable the downgrade and keep attempting IPv6 on
every connection \(em wanted on an IPv6-only deployment or when debugging the
IPv6 path. The downgrade is self-healing (it reverts if IPv4 turns out not to
work), so an IPv6-only host never stays downgraded and a healthy IPv6 host never
trips it.
.TP
.BR XRDC_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS " (EXPANDED)"
Cap in milliseconds on the connect + handshake + login phase (default 15000),
separate from the steady-state I/O timeout. Lower it to fail fast against a
misbehaving firewall that completes the TCP connect then hangs the protocol
handshake; the client then reconnects (with backoff) rather than hanging.
.TP
.BR XRDC_IO_TIMEOUT_MS " (EXPANDED)"
Cap in milliseconds on each steady-state read/write once a session is established
(default 30000).
.SH URLS
Most subcommands accept a full \fBroot\fR[\fBs\fR]\fB://\fIhost\fR[\fI:port\fR]\fB//\fIpath\fR URL
or a bare \fIhost\fR[\fI:port\fR] plus a separate \fIpath\fR argument.
The double slash (\fB//\fR) separates the server endpoint from the server-side path.
Default port is 1094.
\fBroots://\fR enables in-protocol TLS.
An alias defined in \fI~/.xrdrc\fR may replace the full \fIhost[:port]\fR component.
.PP
WebDAV/HTTP endpoints (\fBhttps://\fR, \fBhttp://\fR, \fBdavs://\fR, \fBdav://\fR) use
single-slash path syntax: \fBhttps://\fIhost\fR[\fI:port\fR]\fI/path\fR.
.PP
S3 endpoints use \fBs3://\fR or \fBs3s://\fR (TLS): \fBs3://\fIhost\fR[\fI:port\fR]\fB/\fIbucket\fB/\fIkey\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration: endpoint aliases and default credentials.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success; the underlying XRootD shell code on a protocol error; 50 on a
usage error; 51 on out of memory; 127 if the underlying tool binary cannot be
executed.
.SH NOTES
\fBchown\fR/\fBchgrp\fR are intentionally absent \(em \fBxrd\fR never mutates
ownership. The link, \fBreadlink\fR, and \fBtouch\fR-time verbs require the
server to advertise \fIxrdfs.ext\fR; otherwise they fail cleanly with
\fIkXR_Unsupported\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrddiag (1),
.BR xrdmapc (1),
.BR xrootdfs (1)
