.TH XRDCEPH_STRIPER_MIGRATE 1 "July 2026" "brix client tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdceph_striper_migrate \- enable CephFS over an existing libradosstriper (XrdCeph) RADOS pool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdceph_striper_migrate
.I striper_pool cephfs_data_pool dest_prefix
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Migrates a stock-XrdCeph (libradosstriper) pool to CephFS. For every logical
file the MDS builds the namespace, checksum/xattrs are carried over, and the
size is set via the MDS. Striper and CephFS share Ceph's striping algorithm,
so object index N maps to the same byte range in both; only the object NAME
differs.
.PP
The default mode is \fBzero-move\fR: a RADOS redirect stub at each data object
points at the existing striper object. No bytes are copied and the source pool
stays the single copy. \fBREAD-ONLY ONLY\fR: a write to a redirect-migrated
file writes THROUGH to the source object \(em serve the migrated CephFS
read-only until \fB\-\-finalize\fR, or the original data is silently modified
and rollback can no longer restore it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-mode " redirect|copy"
\fBredirect\fR (default): zero-move stubs. \fBcopy\fR: server-side copy_from
(OSD-to-OSD) \(em real owned copies, no host/WAN data movement, transient
~2x space.
.TP
.B \-\-rollback
Remove the CephFS overlay. Every stub is DETACHED from its source first, so
the async MDS purge cannot delete-through; the source pool is left intact.
.TP
.B \-\-finalize
Materialize redirect stubs into owned objects (tier_promote, in-cluster) so
the result is a normal read-write CephFS and the striper pool can be
decommissioned.
.TP
.BI \-\-list " FILE"
Migrate only the soids listed (one per line); otherwise enumerate the pool.
.TP
.BI \-\-strip " PFX"
Strip a leading PFX from each soid before joining \fIdest_prefix\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-threads " N"
Parallel workers (default 4).
.TP
.B \-\-verify
Read the migrated file and compare adler32 against the carried
user.XrdCks.adler32 checksum (in redirect mode this also proves the redirect
chain serves correct data end-to-end).
.TP
.B \-\-delete\-source
(copy mode only) Remove the striper objects after verify.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Re-migrate a file that already exists at the destination (its old stubs are
detached before the unlink).
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print what would be done without writing; includes a wall-clock estimate.
.TP
.BI \-\-sample\-mb " N"
Size of the timing sample used by the \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR estimator (MiB).
.TP
.B \-\-progress
Periodic progress output.
.TP
.BI \-\-conf " PATH"
Ceph configuration file (default /etc/ceph/ceph.conf).
.TP
.BI \-\-config " PATH"
Site-profile tool configuration (pool names, prefixes).
.SH PYTHON VARIANT
.B xrdceph_striper_migrate.py
is the pure-Python implementation with identical semantics plus
.BR \-\-json " (JSONL output), " \-\-state " (resumable manifest), and "
.BR \-\-prefix " / " \-\-match " (worklist filters)."
It requires python3-rados and python3-cephfs; the redirect operations go
through the pymigrate.radosbridge ctypes bridge (compiled shim fallback).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 all ok/skipped, 1 any per-file failure, 2 usage or guard error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdceph_cephfs_to_striper (1),
.BR xrdrados_rescue (1),
.BR xrdcephfs_rescue (1),
.BR xrdceph_migrate (1)
