.TH XRDCKSUM 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdcksum \- compute, verify and manage file checksums for XRootD and local storage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdcksum
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.br
.B xrdcrc32c
\fIPATH\fR
.br
.B xrdcrc64
\fIPATH\fR
.br
.B xrdadler32
\fIPATH\fR
.br
.B xrdckverify
[\-\-cache|\-\-storage|\-\-auto] [\-\-algo \fINAME\fR] [\-q] \fIFILE\fR
.br
.B xrdcinfo
[\-\-xattr] \fIPATH\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrdcksum
computes, verifies and manages checksums for files stored locally or on
XRootD (root://) servers.
It is also invocable through convenience symlinks:
.BR xrdcrc32c ,
.BR xrdcrc64 ,
.BR xrdadler32 ,
.BR xrdckverify ,
and
.BR xrdcinfo .
.PP
Pass \fB\-\-help\fR to any subcommand for its per-command usage.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B crc32c \fIPATH\fR
Compute the CRC32c checksum of a local file or root:// path.
Also invocable as
.BR xrdcrc32c .
.TP
.B crc64 \fIPATH\fR
Compute the CRC-64/XZ checksum.
Also invocable as
.BR xrdcrc64 .
.TP
.B adler32 \fIPATH\fR
Compute the Adler-32 checksum.
Also invocable as
.BR xrdadler32 .
.TP
.B verify [\-\-cache|\-\-storage|\-\-auto] [\-\-algo \fINAME\fR] [\-q] \fIFILE\fR
Verify a local file against its recorded checksum.
\fB\-\-storage\fR reads the \fBuser.XrdCks.\fR\fIalg\fR xattr and \fI<file>.cks\fR sidecar.
\fB\-\-cache\fR reads the proxy-cache \fI<file>.cinfo\fR / \fI<file>.meta\fR digest.
\fB\-\-auto\fR (default) consults both.
\fB\-\-algo\fR restricts verification to one algorithm
(\fBadler32\fR, \fBcrc32c\fR, \fBcrc64\fR, \fBcrc64nvme\fR, \fBmd5\fR).
\fB\-q\fR is quiet: prints only on mismatch or error.
Exit: 0 OK, 1 mismatch, 2 no recorded checksum, 3 error.
Also invocable as
.BR xrdckverify .
.TP
.B info [\-\-xattr] \fIPATH\fR
Dump a proxy-cache \fI.cinfo\fR or xmeta xattr as JSON.
Also invocable as
.BR xrdcinfo .
.TP
.B tree \fIROOT\fR [\-\-algo \fINAME\fR] [\-o \fIFILE\fR]
Produce a sha256sum-style checksum manifest for all regular files under a
local directory or a root:// tree.
\fB\-\-algo\fR selects the digest (default: \fBadler32\fR).
\fB\-o\fR writes the manifest to \fIFILE\fR instead of stdout.
Exit: 0 clean, 2 any per-file errors.
.TP
.B check \fIMANIFEST\fR \fIROOT\fR [\-\-algo \fINAME\fR]
Verify every file listed in a tree manifest against its stored digest.
\fIROOT\fR is a local directory or root:// URL that was checksummed.
Without \fB\-\-algo\fR, algorithms are inferred from digest length:
adler32 (8 hex), crc64 (16 hex), md5 (32 hex).
Use \fB\-\-algo\fR for crc32c, zcrc32, or crc64nvme manifests.
Prints \fBOK\fR or \fBFAILED\fR for each entry.
Exit: 0 all OK, 1 any mismatch, 2 errors.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Compute a CRC32c checksum
xrdcksum crc32c root://store.example:1094//data/file.root

# Build a manifest of a remote tree and verify it
xrdcksum tree root://store.example:1094//atlas/ -o atlas.manifest
xrdcksum check atlas.manifest root://store.example:1094//atlas/

# Verify a cached file against its stored checksum
xrdcksum verify --auto /cache/data/file.root
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.TP
.B XRDC_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS
Connect timeout in milliseconds.
.TP
.B XRDC_IO_TIMEOUT_MS
Per-operation I/O timeout.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration file.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrddiag (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
