.TH XRDCEPH_CEPHFS_TO_STRIPER 1 "July 2026" "brix client tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdceph_cephfs_to_striper \- expose an unmounted CephFS as libradosstriper (XrdCeph) storage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdceph_cephfs_to_striper
.I meta_pool cephfs_data_pool striper_pool
.B \-\-assume\-quiesced
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reverse migration: walks the CephFS namespace directly from RADOS (no mount,
no MDS) and creates striper-named redirect stubs in the target pool pointing
at the CephFS data objects, stamping the striper layout and size xattrs so
libradosstriper (XrdCeph) can read each file. Zero-move by default; reversible
with \fB\-\-rollback\fR (stubs are detached first, CephFS data intact).
.PP
\fBREQUIRES THE CEPHFS TO BE QUIESCED\fR (MDS down or fs failed, journal
flushed): the mandatory \fB\-\-assume\-quiesced\fR flag is the operator's
assertion of that state.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-assume\-quiesced
REQUIRED safety assertion: the filesystem is unmounted and its journal is
flushed.
.TP
.B \-\-rollback
Remove the striper overlay. Each stub is detached (unset_manifest) before
removal; the CephFS data is left intact.
.TP
.B \-\-finalize
Materialize redirects into owned striper objects (tier_promote, in-cluster)
so the whole CephFS (metadata + data pools) can be torn down.
.TP
.B \-\-report\-only
Walk and report what would be migrated; write nothing.
.TP
.BI \-\-strip " PFX"
Strip a leading path prefix when forming the striper soid.
.TP
.BI \-\-threads " N"
Parallel workers (default 4).
.TP
.B \-\-verify
Read the migrated file back via libradosstriper and compare it against the
carried adler32 checksum.
.TP
.B \-\-delete\-source
(finalize only) Remove the CephFS data objects after materialization and
verify.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print what would be done without writing.
.TP
.BI \-\-conf " PATH"
Ceph configuration file (default /etc/ceph/ceph.conf).
.TP
.BI \-\-config " PATH"
Site-profile tool configuration (pool names, prefixes).
.SH PYTHON VARIANT
.B xrdceph_cephfs_to_striper.py
is the pure-Python implementation with identical semantics plus
.BR \-\-json ", " \-\-state ", " \-\-list ", " \-\-prefix ", " \-\-match ", and " \-\-progress .
It requires python3-rados; the namespace walk uses the pure-Python
pymigrate.cephfs_meta decoders (no libcephfs needed).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 all ok/skipped, 1 any per-file failure, 2 usage or guard error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdceph_striper_migrate (1),
.BR xrdcephfs_rescue (1)
