.TH XRDCP 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdcp \- copy files between local, root://, WebDAV/HTTP and S3 endpoints
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdcp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fISRC\fR... \fIDST\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrdcp
copies files and directory trees between local paths, \fBroot://\fR /
\fBroots://\fR servers, WebDAV/HTTP(S) endpoints and S3 buckets, with
resilient transfers (reconnect + resume), checksum verification,
third-party copy, parallel jobs and streams, sync/mirror semantics and
resumable batch manifests.
.PP
\fISRC\fR and \fIDST\fR may be a \fBroot://host[:port]//path\fR URL,
a web URL (\fBdavs://\fR, \fBhttp(s)://\fR, \fBdav://\fR,
\fBs3://\fR, \fBs3s://\fR), a local path, or \fB\-\fR (stdin/stdout).
Web-to-web copies relay through a local temporary file.
Multiple sources, a glob, or \fB\-\-from\fR imply that \fIDST\fR is a directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Overwrite an existing destination.
.TP
.B \-r
Recursively copy a tree (root/davs/http/s3 <-> local, or web<->web).
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-posc
Persist-on-successful-close (upload).
.TP
.B \-s
Silent: suppress all non-error output.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-d ", " \-\-verbose ", " \-\-debug
Verbose / debug output.
.TP
.BI \-\-from " FILE"
Read sources from a manifest (one per line; \fB\-\fR reads from stdin).
.TP
.BI \-\-journal " PATH"
Record completed transfers to \fIPATH\fR; skip already-completed entries on the next run.
.TP
.B \-\-resume
Shorthand for \fB\-\-journal\fR \fI<manifest>.journal\fR (requires \fB\-\-from\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-retry " N"
Retry each failed transfer up to \fIN\fR times with exponential back-off; 0 = fail fast.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-retry
Disable transport resilience: fail immediately on the first fault.
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-stall " MS"
Reconnect/resume patience window in milliseconds (0 = fail fast).
Also settable via \fBXRDC_MAX_STALL_MS\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-auto\-refresh
Proactively renew an expired or near-expiry token (via oidc-agent) or GSI proxy
before transferring.
.TP
.BI \-\-oidc\-account " NAME"
oidc-agent account for \fB\-\-auto\-refresh\fR (or \fB$OIDC_ACCOUNT\fR).
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-jobs " \fIN\fR"
Copy up to \fIN\fR files concurrently (batch mode).
.TP
.B \-\-sync
Skip transfers whose destination already has the same size (or mtime/checksum
per \fB\-\-sync\-check\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-sync\-check " MODE"
Comparison method for \fB\-\-sync\fR: \fBsize\fR (default), \fBmtime\fR, or
\fBcksum\fR[:\fIalgo\fR].
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print what would be transferred or deleted; move no bytes.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude " PAT"
Skip files matching this fnmatch pattern (repeatable).
.TP
.BI \-\-include " PAT"
Only transfer files matching this fnmatch pattern (repeatable).
.TP
.B \-\-delete
With \fB\-r \-\-sync\fR: delete destination entries that are absent from the source.
.TP
.B \-\-remove\-source
Delete each source file after its transfer succeeds (local and root:// sources only).
.TP
.BR \-N ", " \-\-no\-progress
Suppress the progress bar even when stderr is a TTY.
.TP
.B \-\-progress
Show a transfer progress bar with ETA (enabled automatically on a TTY for single-file copies).
.TP
.B \-\-verify
After each transfer, verify the checksum against the server (root:// only).
.TP
.B \-\-tls
Require in-protocol TLS (implied by \fBroots://\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-notlsok
Permit cleartext if the server offers no TLS (root:// only).
.TP
.B \-\-noverifyhost
Skip TLS hostname verification (certificate chain validation stays on).
.TP
.BI \-\-auth " PROTO"
Force an authentication protocol: \fBgsi\fR | \fBztn\fR | \fBkrb5\fR |
\fBsss\fR | \fBunix\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-proxy " PATH"
Use \fIPATH\fR as the X.509 proxy certificate, overriding \fBX509_USER_PROXY\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-pgrw
Use paged I/O (\fBkXR_pgread\fR/\fBkXR_pgwrite\fR) with per-page CRC32c integrity.
.TP
.BI \-\-io\-uring " MODE"
Local-disk overlap ring: \fBon\fR | \fBoff\fR | \fBauto\fR (default \fBauto\fR).
Overrides \fBXRDC_IO_URING\fR.  Also accepted as \fB\-\-io\-uring=\fImode\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-cksum " TYPE" [: source | :print | : VALUE ]
Verify a checksum after transfer.
\fITYPE\fR is \fBadler32\fR, \fBcrc32c\fR, or \fBmd5\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-compress " CODEC"
Enable root:// inline compression on download (read) and upload (write).
\fICODEC\fR: \fBgzip\fR | \fBdeflate\fR | \fBzstd\fR | \fBbr\fR |
\fBxz\fR | \fBbzip2\fR.
Server opt-in; silently ignored if the server does not support it.
.TP
.B \-\-zip
Store the local source as a STORE member of the destination ZIP archive
(overwrites the archive).
.TP
.B \-\-zip\-append
Like \fB\-\-zip\fR but append to an existing archive.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-streams " \fIN\fR"
Open N\-1 secondary \fBkXR_bind\fR data streams.
.TP
.B \-\-tpc " first\|only\|delegate"
Server-side third-party copy (remote to remote).
.TP
.BI \-\-tpc\-token\-mode " MODE"
Bearer-token forwarding mode for \fB\-\-tpc\fR: passed as \fBtpc.token_mode\fR
in the opaque query string (nginx-xrootd extension; silently ignored by other servers).
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-token " \fIJWT\fR"
WebDAV/HTTP bearer token (or \fB$BEARER_TOKEN\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-s3\-access " KEY"
S3 SigV4 access key ID (or \fB$AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-s3\-secret " KEY"
S3 SigV4 secret key (or \fB$AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-s3\-region " REGION"
S3 SigV4 region (or \fB$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION\fR; default \fBus\-east\-1\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-wire\-trace [= N ]
Decode every frame to stderr; \fIN\fR>=2 adds a hex dump.
.TP
.B \-\-timing
Print per-opcode round-trip time at the end.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print this help.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Recursive mirror with deletion of stale destination entries
xrdcp -r --sync --delete root://se//data/run42/ /scratch/run42/

# Batch transfer from a manifest, resuming a previous interrupted run
xrdcp --from list.txt --resume -j 8 root://se//dest/

# Single-file download with checksum verification
xrdcp --verify root://store.example:1094//atlas/file.root /tmp/
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XRDC_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS
Connect and protocol bring-up timeout in milliseconds.
.TP
.B XRDC_IO_TIMEOUT_MS
Per-operation I/O timeout in milliseconds once a session is established.
.TP
.B XRDC_MAX_STALL_MS
Reconnect/resume patience window (same as \fB\-\-max\-stall\fR).
.TP
.B XRDC_IO_URING
Default io_uring mode for local-disk I/O: \fBon\fR | \fBoff\fR | \fBauto\fR (default \fBauto\fR).
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to the configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.TP
.B BEARER_TOKEN
Default WebDAV/HTTP bearer token (same as \fB\-T\fR).
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
GSI proxy certificate path (used by \fB\-\-auth gsi\fR and \fB\-\-auto\-refresh\fR).
.TP
.B OIDC_ACCOUNT
Default oidc-agent account for \fB\-\-auto\-refresh\fR.
.TP
.B AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
S3 access key (same as \fB\-\-s3\-access\fR).
.TP
.B AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
S3 secret key (same as \fB\-\-s3\-secret\fR).
.TP
.B AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
S3 region (same as \fB\-\-s3\-region\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration file defining endpoint aliases and default credentials.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on full success; non-zero if any transfer failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrdcksum (1),
.BR xrddiag (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
