.TH XRDDIAG 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrddiag \- XRootD / WebDAV / S3 diagnostics and health probes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrddiag
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTS\fR] \fIURL\fR [...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrddiag
provides a battery of active diagnostics against XRootD (root[s]://),
WebDAV/HTTP(S) (http://, https://, dav://, davs://), S3 (s3://, s3s://),
and CMS (cms://) storage endpoints.
Each subcommand targets a specific concern: correctness, throughput, topology,
health, comparison, security, or tape/tape-REST workflows.
.PP
A session can be captured for later offline analysis or replay:
.RS
xrdcp/xrdfs \-\-capture \fIFILE.xrdcap\fR ...
.RE
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B check \fIURL\fR [\-\-json]
Protocol-correctness probes: connect, authenticate, stat, open, read, checksum.
\fB\-\-json\fR emits a single JSON object (nothing on stdout on a connect error);
the exit code is unchanged.
.TP
.B bench \fIURL\fR [\-S \fIN\fR] [\-\-sweep]
Timed download benchmark, single vs. multi-stream.
\fB\-S\fR sets the number of parallel streams; \fB\-\-sweep\fR sweeps 1..N to find the knee.
.TP
.B metabench \fIURL\fR [\-S \fIN\fR] [\-\-count \fIN\fR]
Concurrent metadata storm: stat/ls/open operations, reporting ops/sec and p50/p95/p99 latency.
.TP
.B topology \fIURL\fR [\-\-cluster\-url \fIURL\fR] [\-\-json]
Locate + redirect convergence: shows all replicas and redirector chains.
\fB\-\-json\fR emits a top-level JSON array of nodes; the probe outcomes still
drive the exit code (0 on success, 1 on any probe failure).
.TP
.B status \fIURL\fR [\-\-metrics\-port \fIN\fR]
Pull \fB/metrics\fR from the Prometheus endpoint and summarise service health.
.TP
.B watch \fIURL\fR [\fIURL2\fR...] [\-\-interval \fIS\fR] [\-\-count \fIN\fR] [\-\-prometheus[=\fIPATH\fR]] [\-\-json]
Continuous health and SLA probe (connect + read + locate) against one or more endpoints.
Ctrl-C to stop.
.TP
.B compare \fIURLa\fR \-\-vs\-reference \fIURLb\fR
Root-vs-root size, listing, and md5 comparison.
.TP
.B compare \fIROOT-URL//PATH\fR \-\-davs \fIHOST\fR[\fI:PORT\fR]
Cross-protocol oracle: compare root:// against WebDAV.
.TP
.B probe\-robustness \fIURL\fR \-\-i\-am\-authorized
Adversarial reject auditor: tests that the server correctly rejects bad credentials,
forged tokens, and out-of-scope requests.
.TP
.B replay \fIFILE.xrdcap\fR [\-\-playback \fIURL\fR]
Decode a captured session to stdout, or re-issue its requests against \fIURL\fR.
.TP
.B srr \fIHTTP[S]-URL\fR
Fetch and display a WLCG Storage Resource Report.
.TP
.B tape \fIHTTP[S]-URL//PATH\fR
Drive the WLCG/FRM Tape REST interface: stage a file and poll until online.
.TP
.B qstats [\-c \fIKEY\fR | \-s \fIPATH\fR] \fIHOST\fR[\fI:PORT\fR]
Send \fBkXR_query\fR stats/config/space and display the result.
.TP
.B wait41 [\-\-timeout \fIS\fR] [\-\-full] \fIHOST\fR[\fI:PORT\fR]
Wait until the server is ready (kXR_protocol response received).
\fB\-\-full\fR also waits for auth and namespace readiness.
.TP
.B mpxstats [\fIHOST\fR | \-] [\-\-metrics\-port \fIN\fR]
Subscribe to the multiplexed mpxstats feed (\fB\-\fR reads from stdin).
.TP
.B remote\-doctor \fIURL\fR [\fIURL2\fR...] [\-\-json] [\-\-allow\-write] [\-\-auth\-suite] [\-\-no\-verify\-tls]
Actively diagnose server problems across all protocol stages: connect, TLS, auth,
request, ranges, checksum, listing, redirect.
\fB\-\-allow\-write\fR adds write and stage probes.
\fB\-\-auth\-suite\fR adds an auth/permissions battery: anon-bypass, forged/expired-token
rejection, scope enforcement.
\fB\-\-no\-verify\-tls\fR skips certificate chain verification (for self-signed endpoints).
Each URL's scheme selects its own probe battery (root[s]://, http://, https://,
davs://|dav://, s3://|s3s://, cms://).
.SH OPTIONS
The following options apply globally to all subcommands:
.TP
.B \-\-tls
Require in-protocol TLS.
.TP
.B \-\-notlsok
Permit cleartext.
.TP
.B \-\-noverifyhost
Skip TLS hostname verification.
.TP
.BI \-\-auth " gsi|ztn|unix"
Force an authentication protocol.
.TP
.BR \-\-wire\-trace [= N ]
Decode every frame to stderr; \fIN\fR>=2 adds a hex dump.
.TP
.B \-\-timing
Print per-opcode RTT at the end.
.TP
.BI \-\-probe\-timeout " MS"
Timeout for each individual probe step.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH URLS
.TP
.BR root [ s ]:// host [: port ]// path
Native XRootD endpoint; default port 1094.
\fBroots://\fR enables in-protocol TLS.
An alias in \fI~/.xrdrc\fR may replace the \fIhost[:port]\fR component.
.TP
.BR https:// " | " http:// " | " davs:// " | " dav:// host [: port ]/ path
WebDAV/HTTP endpoint.
TLS enabled for \fBhttps://\fR and \fBdavs://\fR.
.TP
.BR s3:// " | " s3s:// host [: port ]/ bucket / key
S3 SigV4 endpoint; \fBs3s://\fR enables TLS.
.TP
.BR cms:// host [: port ]
CMS redirector endpoint for topology probes.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Full automated diagnosis of a server
xrddiag remote-doctor root://store.example:1094 --allow-write

# Throughput sweep to find the stream-count knee
xrddiag bench root://store.example:1094//bigfile.dat -S 16 --sweep

# Replay a previously captured session
xrddiag replay session.xrdcap

# Continuous health watch at 30-second intervals
xrddiag watch root://a:1094 root://b:1094 --interval 30 --json
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BEARER_TOKEN
Bearer token for HTTP(S)/WebDAV probes.
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
GSI proxy certificate path.
.TP
.B AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
S3 access key for S3 protocol probes.
.TP
.B AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
S3 secret key.
.TP
.B AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
S3 region.
.TP
.B XRDC_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS
Connect timeout in milliseconds.
.TP
.B XRDC_IO_TIMEOUT_MS
Per-operation I/O timeout.
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration: endpoint aliases and default credentials.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success.
1 if any probe step fails (topology, remote-doctor, probe-robustness).
50 on a usage error (EUSAGE).
51 on socket/connect/timeout error (ESOCK), permanent name-resolution failure (ERESOLVE),
or data corruption (EINTEGRITY, I/O-error class).
52 on redirect loop/budget exhausted (EREDIRECT) or malformed server frame (EPROTO).
53 on authentication failure (EAUTH; several error classes share this code with syscall
errors like EPERM, EACCES when running against native XRootD).
54 on unsupported feature (EUNSUPPORTED) or generic server error.
Non-zero (the underlying XRootD error code) on a connect or protocol error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrdcksum (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
