.TH XRDFS 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdfs \- interactive and scriptable XRootD filesystem client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdfs
[\fIOPTS\fR] \fIHOST\fR[\fI:PORT\fR] | \fIroot\fR[\fIs\fR]\fI://host[:port]\fR | \fIhttp\fR[\fIs\fR]\fI://host/path\fR | \fIdav\fR[\fIs\fR]\fI://host/path\fR
[\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrdfs
provides a complete filesystem client for XRootD servers.
With no command it drops into an interactive shell (root:// only).
With a command it runs that command and exits.
.PP
HTTP(S)/WebDAV endpoints support read-only metadata operations: \fBls\fR and \fBstat\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-tls
Require in-protocol TLS (implied by \fBroots://\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-notlsok
Permit cleartext if the server offers no TLS.
.TP
.B \-\-noverifyhost
Do not verify the server certificate hostname.
.TP
.BI \-\-auth " gsi|ztn|krb5|sss|unix"
Force a specific authentication protocol (root:// only).
.TP
.BR \-\-token " \fITOK\fR" ", " \-T " \fITOK\fR"
Bearer token for http(s)/WebDAV authentication (or \fB$BEARER_TOKEN\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
Each command accepts \fB\-\-help\fR to print its one-line synopsis.
In the interactive shell, \fBcd\fR, \fBpwd\fR, \fBhelp\fR, and \fBexit\fR are also available.
.TP
.B stat [-j] \fIPATH\fR
Print file or directory metadata. \fB\-j\fR emits a single-line JSON object.
The \fBmode\fR field is an octal string (e.g. \fB"0755"\fR).
.TP
.B ls [-l] [-R] [-h, --human] [-j] [\fIPATH\fR]
List a directory. \fB\-l\fR long, \fB\-R\fR recursive,
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-human\fR human-readable sizes, \fB\-j\fR JSON output.
.TP
.B du [-h, --human] [-j] \fIPATH\fR...
Recursive disk-usage summary. \fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-human\fR human-readable,
\fB\-j\fR JSON. JSON output is always a top-level array (single path → array of 1).
.TP
.B df [-h, --human] [\fIPATH\fR]
Disk space and \fBoss.*\fR quota space. \fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-human\fR human-readable.
.TP
.B tree [-d, --dirs-only] [-L, --depth \fIN\fR] [\fIPATH\fR]
ASCII tree view. \fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dirs\-only\fR directories only,
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-depth\fR max depth.
.TP
.B find \fIPATH\fR [-name \fIGLOB\fR] [-type f|d] [-size +\fIN\fR|-\fIN\fR]
Search a subtree.
.TP
.B mkdir [-p] [-m \fIMODE\fR] \fIPATH\fR
Create a directory. \fB\-p\fR create parents, \fB\-m\fR octal mode.
.TP
.B rm [-r] [-v, --verbose] \fIPATH\fR
Remove a file or, with \fB\-r\fR, a directory tree.
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR prints each removed entry.
Before descending any directory entry,
.B rm \-r
issues an lstat probe (kXR_statNoFollow) to detect directory symlinks.
A symlink whose target is a directory is removed as a link (the target
and its contents are preserved), matching POSIX
.BR rm (1)
\fB\-r\fR semantics.
On a server that does not support kXR_statNoFollow, the probe falls back
to a regular stat and the symlink is treated as a real directory.
.TP
.B rmdir \fIPATH\fR
Remove an empty directory.
.TP
.B mv \fISRC\fR \fIDST\fR
Rename or move a file.
.TP
.B chmod [-R] \fIPATH\fR \fIOCTAL\fR
Change permissions. \fB\-R\fR recursive.
.TP
.B touch [-c] [-a] [-m] [-t, --timestamp \fISTAMP\fR] \fIPATH\fR
Update timestamps; \fB\-c\fR do not create;
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timestamp\fR sets an explicit [[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm[.ss] time.
.TP
.B ln [-s] [-f] \fITARGET\fR \fILINKPATH\fR
Create a hard or symbolic (\fB\-s\fR) link.
.TP
.B readlink \fIPATH\fR
Print the target of a symbolic link.
.TP
.B truncate \fIPATH\fR \fISIZE\fR
Truncate a file to \fISIZE\fR bytes.
.TP
.B cat [-z \fICODEC\fR] \fIPATH\fR
Print file contents to stdout.
\fB\-z\fR decompresses on the fly using the named codec
(\fBgzip\fR, \fBzstd\fR, \fBbr\fR, \fBxz\fR, \fBbzip2\fR, \fBdeflate\fR).
.TP
.B head [-c \fIBYTES\fR] [-n \fILINES\fR] \fIPATH\fR
Print the first bytes or lines of a file.
.TP
.B tail [-c \fIBYTES\fR] [-n \fILINES\fR] [-f] \fIPATH\fR
Print the last bytes or lines. \fB\-f\fR follows appends (polls).
.TP
.B wc [-c] [-l] [-w] \fIPATH\fR
Count bytes, lines, and words.
.TP
.B grep [-i] [-n] \fIPATTERN\fR \fIPATH\fR
Search for a pattern. \fB\-i\fR case-insensitive, \fB\-n\fR show line numbers.
.TP
.B hexdump [-n \fIBYTES\fR] \fIPATH\fR
Hex dump a file (or its first \fIN\fR bytes).
.TP
.B dd [if=]\fIPATH\fR [bs=\fIN\fR] [skip=\fIN\fR] [count=\fIN\fR] [rate=\fIR\fR]
Copy a file with optional rate limiting.
.TP
.B upload [bs=\fIN\fR] [rate=\fIR\fR] [-f] [\-\-io\-uring on|off|auto] \fILOCALFILE\fR|\fB\-\fR \fIREMOTE\fR
Upload a local file or stdin to a remote path.
\fB\-f\fR overwrites; \fB\-\-io\-uring\fR selects the local I/O backend.
Unknown mode values are a hard error (exit 50); use \fBon\fR, \fBoff\fR, or \fBauto\fR.
.TP
.B download [bs=\fIN\fR] [rate=\fIR\fR] [-f] [\-\-io\-uring on|off|auto] \fIREMOTE\fR [\fILOCALFILE\fR|\fB\-\fR]
Download a remote file to a local path or stdout.
Unknown \fB\-\-io\-uring\fR mode values are a hard error (exit 50).
.TP
.B cmp \fIPATH1\fR \fIPATH2\fR
Compare two remote files byte-by-byte.
.TP
.B cksum [-a \fIALGO\fR] \fIPATH\fR
Compute a server-side checksum.
.TP
.B xattr ls|get|set|rm \fIPATH\fR [\fINAME\fR [\fIVALUE\fR]]
Manage extended attributes via kXR_fattr.
.TP
.B readv \fIPATH\fR \fIOFF\fR \fILEN\fR...
Scatter-gather read.
.TP
.B writev \fIPATH\fR \fIOFF\fR \fIHEXDATA\fR...
Scatter-gather write.
.TP
.B locate \fIPATH\fR
Resolve all replica locations.
.TP
.B query config|space|checksum|stats [\fIARGS\fR]
Send a \fBkXR_query\fR request.
.TP
.B statvfs [\fIPATH\fR]
Retrieve filesystem statistics.
.TP
.B prepare [-s|-w|-c|-f|-e] \fIPATH\fR...
Send a \fBkXR_prepare\fR request: \fB\-s\fR stage, \fB\-w\fR write-mode,
\fB\-c\fR cancel, \fB\-f\fR fresh, \fB\-e\fR evict.
.TP
.B stage [\-\-wait[=\fISECS\fR]] \fIPATH\fR...
Stage files from tape, optionally waiting until online.
.TP
.B evict \fIPATH\fR...
Evict files from the cache tier.
.TP
.B explain
Print connection, authentication, and TLS facts for the current session.
.SH URLS
.TP
.BR root [ s ]:// host [: port ]
Native XRootD endpoint; default port 1094.
\fBroots://\fR enables in-protocol TLS.
An alias in \fI~/.xrdrc\fR may replace the \fIhost[:port]\fR component.
Append a base path (\fBroot://host/base\fR) to root the session at that subtree.
.TP
.BR https:// " | " http:// " | " davs:// " | " dav:// host [: port ]/ path
HTTP/WebDAV endpoint (read-only metadata: \fBls\fR and \fBstat\fR).
TLS enabled for \fBhttps://\fR and \fBdavs://\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# List a remote directory
xrdfs root://store.example:1094 ls -l /atlas/run42/

# Remove a directory tree
xrdfs root://store.example:1094 rm -r /tmp/scratch/

# Follow-tail an active log file
xrdfs root://store.example:1094 tail -f /logs/worker.log

# Interactive shell
xrdfs root://store.example:1094
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XRDC_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS
Connect and protocol bring-up timeout in milliseconds.
.TP
.B XRDC_IO_TIMEOUT_MS
Per-operation I/O timeout in milliseconds.
.TP
.B XRDC_MAX_STALL_MS
Reconnect patience window in milliseconds.
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to the configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.TP
.B BEARER_TOKEN
Default WebDAV/HTTP bearer token (same as \fB\-T\fR).
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
GSI proxy certificate path.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration file defining endpoint aliases and default credentials.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success.
50 on a usage error (EUSAGE).
51 on socket/connect/timeout error (ESOCK), permanent name-resolution failure (ERESOLVE),
or data corruption (EINTEGRITY, I/O-error class).
52 on redirect loop/budget exhausted (EREDIRECT) or malformed server frame (EPROTO).
53 on authentication failure (EAUTH; several error classes share this code with syscall
errors like EPERM, EACCES when running against native XRootD).
54 on unsupported feature (EUNSUPPORTED) or generic server error.
Non-zero (the underlying XRootD error code) on a protocol or I/O error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR xrddiag (1),
.BR xrdcksum (1),
.BR xrd (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
