.TH XRDGSIPROXY 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdgsiproxy \- create, inspect and destroy GSI proxy certificates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdgsiproxy
\fBinit\fR [\-valid/\-\-valid \fIH\fR[:\fIM\fR]] [\-cert/\-\-cert \fIFILE\fR] [\-key/\-\-key \fIFILE\fR] [\-out/\-\-out \fIFILE\fR] [\-bits/\-\-bits \fIN\fR]
.br
.B xrdgsiproxy
\fBinfo\fR [\-file/\-\-file \fIFILE\fR]
.br
.B xrdgsiproxy
\fBdestroy\fR [\-file/\-\-file \fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrdgsiproxy
manages GSI (Grid Security Infrastructure) proxy certificates used for
authentication against XRootD servers with \fB\-\-auth gsi\fR.
.PP
The \fBinit\fR subcommand creates a new proxy from a user certificate and key.
The \fBinfo\fR subcommand prints the subject, issuer, and validity of an existing proxy.
The \fBdestroy\fR subcommand removes the proxy file.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Create a new proxy certificate.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-valid " H\fR[\fR:\fIM\fR]\fR (also \fB\-\-valid\fR)"
Proxy validity in hours (and optionally minutes). Default: 12 hours.
.TP
.BI \-cert " FILE\fR (also \fB\-\-cert\fR)"
User certificate file (default: \fI~/.globus/usercert.pem\fR or
\fB$X509_USER_CERT\fR).
.TP
.BI \-key " FILE\fR (also \fB\-\-key\fR)"
User private key file (default: \fI~/.globus/userkey.pem\fR or
\fB$X509_USER_KEY\fR).
.TP
.BI \-out " FILE\fR (also \fB\-\-out\fR)"
Write proxy to \fIFILE\fR (default: \fB$X509_USER_PROXY\fR or
\fI/tmp/x509up_u\fR\fIUID\fR).
.TP
.BI \-bits " N\fR (also \fB\-\-bits\fR)"
RSA key size in bits (default: 2048).
.RE
.TP
.B info
Print the subject, issuer, and remaining validity of the proxy.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-file " FILE\fR (also \fB\-\-file\fR)"
Proxy file to inspect (default: \fB$X509_USER_PROXY\fR).
.RE
.TP
.B destroy
Remove the proxy file.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-file " FILE\fR (also \fB\-\-file\fR)"
Proxy file to remove (default: \fB$X509_USER_PROXY\fR).
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Create a 24-hour proxy
xrdgsiproxy init -valid 24

# Inspect the current proxy
xrdgsiproxy info

# Destroy the proxy
xrdgsiproxy destroy
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
Default path for the proxy certificate file.
.TP
.B X509_USER_CERT
Default path for the user certificate.
.TP
.B X509_USER_KEY
Default path for the user private key.
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.globus/usercert.pem
Default user certificate location.
.TP
.I ~/.globus/userkey.pem
Default user private key location.
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration file.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success.
50 on a usage error.
Non-zero on a certificate or key I/O error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
