.TH XRDMAPC 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdmapc \- list XRootD data-server holders for a path
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdmapc
[\fIOPTS\fR] \fBroot\fR[\fBs\fR]\fB://\fR\fIhost\fR[\fI:port\fR][\fI//path\fR] [\fB\-\-verify\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrdmapc
lists the data servers that hold \fIpath\fR (default \fB/\fR), reporting
read/write capability and available space for each.
It uses the XRootD locate protocol to discover all replica holders.
.PP
With \fB\-\-verify\fR, each advertised holder is probed for actual
responsiveness; holders that are advertised but not serving are
flagged as GHOST.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-verify
Probe each holder; flag GHOST for advertised but non-responding servers.
.TP
.B \-\-tls
Require in-protocol TLS.
.TP
.B \-\-notlsok
Permit cleartext if the server offers no TLS.
.TP
.B \-\-noverifyhost
Skip TLS hostname verification (certificate chain check remains on).
.TP
.BI \-\-auth " gsi|ztn|krb5|sss|unix"
Force an authentication protocol.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
GSI proxy certificate path.
.TP
.B BEARER_TOKEN
Bearer token for ZTN/WLCG token authentication.
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration: endpoint aliases and default credentials.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success.
50 on a usage error.
51 on a socket/connect/timeout error.
53 on an authentication failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrddiag (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
