.TH XRDPREP 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdprep \- send kXR_prepare requests to an XRootD server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdprep
[\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-stage\fR|\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-cancel\fR|\fB\-w\fR|\fB\-\-wmode\fR|\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-fresh\fR|\fB\-e\fR|\fB\-\-evict\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-priority\fR \fIPRTY\fR]
\fIHOST\fR[\fI:PORT\fR] \fIPATH\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrdprep
sends \fBkXR_prepare\fR requests to an XRootD server.
This is the low-level prepare interface; for a higher-level workflow consider
.BR xrdfs (1)
.B prepare
or
.BR xrdfs (1)
.BR stage .
.PP
By default (no flag) the request is a stage request.
Multiple paths may be specified; each is sent in a single prepare request.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-stage
Stage: request that the file be brought online from tape (default).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cancel
Cancel: cancel a pending stage request.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-wmode
Write-mode: hint that the file will be opened for writing.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-fresh
Fresh: invalidate any cached copy and fetch a fresh one.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-evict
Evict: release the disk-cache copy.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-priority " \fIPRTY\fR"
Priority 0\-3 (default 0; higher = more urgent).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Stage a file from tape at high priority
xrdprep -s -p 3 store.example:1094 /tape/run42/file.root

# Evict a file from cache
xrdprep -e store.example:1094 /cache/tmp/bigfile.root

# Cancel a pending stage
xrdprep -c store.example:1094 /tape/run42/file.root
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XRDC_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS
Connect timeout in milliseconds.
.TP
.B XRDC_IO_TIMEOUT_MS
Per-operation I/O timeout.
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.TP
.B X509_USER_PROXY
GSI proxy certificate path.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration file.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success.
50 on a usage error (EUSAGE).
51 on socket/connect/timeout error (ESOCK), permanent name-resolution failure (ERESOLVE),
or data corruption (EINTEGRITY, I/O-error class).
52 on redirect loop/budget exhausted (EREDIRECT) or malformed server frame (EPROTO).
53 on authentication failure (EAUTH; several error classes share this code with syscall
errors like EPERM, EACCES when running against native XRootD).
54 on unsupported feature (EUNSUPPORTED) or generic server error.
Non-zero (the underlying XRootD error code) on a connect or protocol error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
