.TH XRDSTORASCAN 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdstorascan \- storage verification, benchmarking and server-side scan tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdstorascan
\fIMODE\fR \fIURL\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrdstorascan
provides end-to-end storage integrity verification and throughput benchmarking
against XRootD/brix gateways.
.PP
The \fBverify\fR and \fBbench\fR modes operate directly against the gateway's
XRootD protocol.
The \fBdump\fR, \fBfill\fR, and \fBcompare\fR modes use the server-side
\fB/brix/api/v1/scan\fR admin HTTP endpoint to drive bulk subtree operations;
the URL for these must be the \fBhttp(s)://\fR dashboard base.
.SH MODES
.TP
.B verify \fIURL\fR [\-\-algo \fINAME\fR] [\-q]
End-to-end verify one file: download it, recompute the checksum, and compare
to the server's recorded value.
\fB\-\-algo\fR selects the algorithm (default: \fBadler32\fR).
\fB\-q\fR suppresses output on success.
Exit: 0 match, 1 mismatch, 2 no recorded checksum, 3 error.
.TP
.B bench \fIURL\fR [\-\-op read] [\-\-block \fISZ\fR[,\fISZ\fR...]] [\-\-parallel \fIN\fR[,\fIN\fR...]] [\-\-duration \fIS\fR | \-\-count \fIN\fR] [\-\-pattern seq|random] [\-\-json]
Throughput and latency sweep against the gateway.
\fISZ\fR accepts K/M/G suffix.
Defaults: \fB\-\-block 1M,4M \-\-parallel 1,8 \-\-duration 5 \-\-pattern seq\fR.
.TP
.B dump \fIDASHBOARD-URL\fR [\-\-path \fIP\fR] [\-\-algo \fIA\fR] [\-\-password \fIPW\fR] [\-\-insecure] [\-\-json|\-\-summary]
Dump recorded checksums-at-rest across a subtree via the admin API.
Authentication via \fB\-\-password\fR or \fB$XRDSTORASCAN_PASSWORD\fR.
.TP
.B fill \fIDASHBOARD-URL\fR [\-\-path \fIP\fR] [\-\-algo \fIA\fR] [\-\-password \fIPW\fR] [\-\-insecure] [\-\-json|\-\-summary]
Back-fill missing checksums-at-rest across a subtree.
.TP
.B compare \fIDASHBOARD-URL\fR [\-\-path \fIP\fR] [\-\-algo \fIA\fR] [\-\-password \fIPW\fR] [\-\-insecure] [\-\-json|\-\-summary]
Verify all checksums-at-rest across a subtree; exit 1 if any mismatch (bit-rot) is found.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-algo " NAME"
Checksum algorithm: \fBadler32\fR (default), \fBcrc32c\fR, \fBcrc64\fR, \fBmd5\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-path " P"
Limit the scan to the given path prefix.
.TP
.BI \-\-password " PW"
Dashboard admin password (or \fB$XRDSTORASCAN_PASSWORD\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-insecure
Skip TLS certificate verification for the dashboard HTTPS endpoint.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Machine-readable JSON output.
.TP
.B \-\-summary
Print a one-line summary only.
.SH URLS
.TP
.BR root [ s ]:// host [: port ]// path
Native XRootD endpoint for the
.B verify
and
.B bench
modes; default port 1094.
\fBroots://\fR enables TLS.
.TP
.BR https:// " | " http:// host [: port ]
Dashboard base URL for the
.BR dump ", " fill ", and " compare
server-side scan modes.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Verify a single file
xrdstorascan verify root://store.example:1094//atlas/file.root

# Throughput benchmark at multiple block sizes
xrdstorascan bench root://store.example:1094//large.dat \
    --block 1M,4M,16M --parallel 1,4,8 --duration 10

# Back-fill checksums server-side
xrdstorascan fill https://store.example:9100 --path /atlas/run42/
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XRDSTORASCAN_PASSWORD
Dashboard admin password for server-side scan modes.
.TP
.B XRDC_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS
Connect timeout in milliseconds.
.TP
.B XRDC_IO_TIMEOUT_MS
Per-operation I/O timeout.
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration file.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 if the operation succeeded (all checksums matched for
.B compare
).
1 if a checksum mismatch was detected (bit-rot).
2 if no recorded checksum was available for the file.
3 on a local I/O, parse, or protocol error.
64 on a server-side scan API error.
50 on a usage error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdcksum (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
