.TH XRDSSSADMIN 1 "2026-07-06" "brix client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrdsssadmin \- manage XRootD SSS (Simple Shared Secret) keytabs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdsssadmin
[\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-keytab\fR \fIKEYTAB\fR]
.B add
[\fIOPTS\fR]
.br
.B xrdsssadmin
[\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-keytab\fR \fIKEYTAB\fR]
.B install
[\fIOPTS\fR]
.br
.B xrdsssadmin
[\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-keytab\fR \fIKEYTAB\fR]
.B list
.br
.B xrdsssadmin
[\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-keytab\fR \fIKEYTAB\fR]
.B del
.B \-\-id
\fIN\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrdsssadmin
manages SSS keytabs used by the XRootD \fBsss\fR authentication protocol.
Each keytab entry contains a random shared secret plus metadata (user, group, name,
lifetime) that the server uses to authorise connections presenting that key.
.PP
The \fB\-k\fR/\fB\-\-keytab\fR option selects the keytab file; the default is
\fB$XrdSecSSSKT\fR, then \fB$XrdSecsssKT\fR, then \fI~/.xrd/sss.keytab\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keytab " \fIKEYTAB\fR"
Path to the SSS keytab file.
Defaults to \fB$XrdSecSSSKT\fR, then \fB$XrdSecsssKT\fR, then
\fI~/.xrd/sss.keytab\fR.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B add
Mint a new random key and append it to the keytab.
.TP
.B install
Identical to \fBadd\fR; creates the keytab file if it does not exist.
.TP
.B list
Print all keytab entries with their IDs and metadata.
.TP
.B del \-\-id \fIN\fR
Delete the entry with wire ID \fIN\fR.
.SH ADD/INSTALL OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-user " U"
Bind the key to user \fIU\fR (default: \fBanybody\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-group " G"
Bind the key to group \fIG\fR (default: \fBanygroup\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-name " NM"
Logical key name (default: the local hostname).
.TP
.BI \-\-id " N"
Wire ID to assign (default: max existing ID + 1).
.TP
.BI \-\-lifetime " DAYS"
Key lifetime in days.
.TP
.BI \-\-keylen " BYTES"
Random key length in bytes (default: 32).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Create a new keytab and add a key bound to a specific user
xrdsssadmin -k /etc/xrd/sss.keytab install --user atlas --group atlas

# List all entries
xrdsssadmin -k /etc/xrd/sss.keytab list

# Delete entry 3
xrdsssadmin -k /etc/xrd/sss.keytab del --id 3
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XrdSecSSSKT
Default keytab path (checked first).
.TP
.B XrdSecsssKT
Default keytab path (checked second).
.TP
.B XRDRC
Path to configuration file (default \fI~/.xrdrc\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.xrd/sss.keytab
Default keytab file.
.TP
.I ~/.xrdrc
Per-user configuration file.
See
.BR brix\-env (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR brix\-env (7)
