.TH XROOTDFS 1 "2026" "nginx-xrootd" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xrootdfs \- network-resilient XRootD FUSE mount over root:// or http(s) (async core)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrootdfs
[\fB--legacy\fR] [\fIconn-opts\fR] [\fIresilience-opts\fR] [\fIcache-opts\fR]
.IR root[s]|http|https|dav|davs://host[:port][/base] " " mountpoint
[\fIfuse-opts\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrootdfs
mounts a remote XRootD namespace through
.BR libfuse3 .
It is a clean-room driver on the project's native
.B libbrix
client (no
.BR libXrdCl / XrdFfs )
and is built for poor networks ("bad wifi from a laptop abroad").
.PP
The binary contains two drivers. By default it runs the async, network-resilient
driver (described here). With
.B \-\-legacy
it instead runs a simple synchronous driver \(em a minimal blocking,
one-request-in-flight fallback (root:// only; no http(s) transport, no reconnect/
resumption). The mount then reports its filesystem type as
.B fuse.xrootdfs_legacy
so listings can tell the two apart.
.PP
File I/O rides an asynchronous, multi-in-flight transport: many requests pipeline
over a small pool of connections, which hides round-trip latency. Every request has
an adaptive deadline (derived from a smoothed RTT estimate), and a
.B kXR_ping
heartbeat detects a silently-dead link. Most importantly, an open file
.B survives a connection drop or a server restart transparently:
the file is reopened (a fresh handle, never re-truncating) and the read or write is
re-issued at the same offset \(em which is idempotent \(em so a mid-transfer
.BR cat / dd / cp
completes byte-exact with no
.B EIO
reaching the application. Metadata operations are retried across a transient drop.
.SH HTTP/WEBDAV TRANSPORT
When the endpoint scheme is
.BR http ", " https ", " dav ", or " davs
the same namespace is mounted
.B read-only
over HTTP/WebDAV instead of the binary root:// protocol:
.B getattr
and
.B readdir
use
.B PROPFIND
(Depth 0 and 1), and reads use HTTP
.B Range
.B GET
over a persistent keep-alive connection. The XML is parsed namespace-prefix- and
attribute-tolerantly, so it works against this server and a standard
.B XrdHttp
endpoint alike (XrdHttp advertises
.I Connection: Close
yet keeps the socket open, so responses are framed by
.IR Content-Length ,
not by end-of-stream). Write operations return
.BR EROFS .
Authenticate with
.B \-\-token
(or
.IR $BEARER_TOKEN );
use
.B \-\-noverifyhost
for the self-signed certificates common in test beds. This lets one driver compare
root:// and https against the same data \(em see
.B bench_fuse_protocols.py
for a throughput comparison harness.
.PP
A
.I /base
path component in the URL roots the mount at that subtree for either transport, e.g.
.I root://host/data
or
.IR https://host/data .
.SH CONNECTION OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-tls
Require in-protocol TLS (implied by a
.B roots://
URL).
.TP
.B \-\-notlsok
Permit cleartext if the server offers no TLS (ignored for
.BR roots:// ).
.TP
.B \-\-noverifyhost
Do not verify the server certificate host name.
.TP
.BI \-\-auth " gsi|ztn|unix"
Force a specific authentication protocol. (Note: GSI request signing forces the
synchronous path for that session.)
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-conns " N"
Metadata connection pool size (default 8).
.SH RESILIENCE OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-streams " N"
Number of asynchronous data connections open files pipeline over (default 4).
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-stall " MS"
How long to keep trying to recover a dropped link before failing an operation
(default 60000). 0 disables reconnect (a drop fails immediately).
.TP
.BI \-\-keepalive " MS"
Send a heartbeat after this much idle time to detect a dead link (default 15000;
0 disables).
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-retries " N"
Transient-error retries for metadata and for re-issuing a file operation after a
reconnect (default 5). Retries use exponential backoff with jitter.
.TP
.BI \-\-connect\-timeout " MS"
Cap on the connect + handshake + login (bring-up) phase (default 15000). Lower it
to fail fast against a firewall that completes the TCP connect then hangs the
protocol handshake. Also set by
.BR XRDC_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS " (EXPANDED)" .
.TP
.BI \-\-io\-timeout " MS"
Steady-state per-operation read/write cap once the session is up (default 30000).
Also set by
.BR XRDC_IO_TIMEOUT_MS " (EXPANDED)" .
.SH CACHE OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-attr\-timeout " S"
Seconds the kernel may cache file attributes (default 1.0).
.TP
.BI \-\-entry\-timeout " S"
Seconds the kernel may cache directory lookups (default 1.0).
.TP
.B \-\-kernel\-cache
Cache file data across opens (best for read-mostly mounts).
.TP
.BI \-\-readahead " N"
Per-open-file read-ahead buffer in bytes (default 1048576; 0 disables).
.TP
.BI \-\-writeback " N"
Per-open-file write-back buffer in bytes (default 1048576; 0 disables).
.TP
.B \-\-xattr
Enable extended attributes (kXR_fattr) on
.B user.*
names, plus a read-only virtual
.B user.XrdCks.<algo>
checksum attribute.
.SH FUSE OPTIONS
Standard libfuse options are forwarded, e.g.
.BR \-f " (foreground), " \-d " (debug), and"
.BI \-o " opt"
such as
.BR "\-o ro" " or " "\-o allow_other" .
.SH POSIX EXTENSIONS
The base XRootD protocol has no wire operation for set-mtime, chown, or links.
This gateway adds capability-negotiated vendor opcodes (advertised via
.B kXR_Qconfig
.IR xrdfs.ext )
that
.B xrootdfs
uses when the server supports them, so
.BR utimens " (" "cp -p" ", " "touch -d" "), " chown ", " "symbolic links" " (" ln \-s ),
and
.B hard links
.RB ( ln )
all work. The negotiated capabilities are printed in the mount banner
.RI ( "ext: setattr=… symlink=… …" ).
Against a server that does not advertise them,
.BR utimens / chown
fall back to accepted no-ops (so
.B cp \-p
still succeeds) and
.BR symlink / link
return
.BR ENOTSUP .
.SH EXAMPLES
Mount over an unreliable link and copy a large file out; the copy survives a
mid-transfer disconnect:
.PP
.RS
.nf
xrootdfs \-\-max\-stall 120000 root://store.example:1094/ /mnt/xrd \-f &
cp /mnt/xrd/data/run42.root .
fusermount3 \-u /mnt/xrd
.fi
.RE
.SH NETWORK
On a dual-stack (IPv4 + IPv6) host whose IPv6 path is broken but whose IPv4
backend works, the mount downgrades to IPv4 automatically. Two things trip the
downgrade:
.IP \(bu 3
at connect time, when an IPv6 attempt fails and the following IPv4 attempt
succeeds (a broken-from-the-start v6 path); and
.IP \(bu 3
over the wire, when a connection that came up over IPv6 then fails mid-session
(reset, timeout, or truncated transfer) \(em the case where v6 goes bad after the
mount is already running.
.PP
On either trigger the whole mount session is pinned to IPv4-only for the rest of
its life, so no later connection (data stream, metadata pool slot, or reconnect)
pays the IPv6 connect timeout again; the reconnect simply comes back over IPv4
and the application sees no error. The data path is unaffected \(em transfers
keep working \(em and the downgrade is logged once to standard error:
.PP
.RS
.nf
xrootd: IPv6 connect to <host> failed but IPv4 succeeded; downgrading this
        session to IPv4-only for all further connections
.fi
.RE
.PP
Set
.BR XRDC_NO_IPV6_FALLBACK=1 " (EXPANDED \(em a client extension, not a vanilla XRootD variable)"
to disable the downgrade and keep attempting IPv6 on every connection \(em wanted
on an IPv6-only deployment or when debugging the IPv6 path itself. A non-final
connect attempt is also bounded (about 5\ seconds) so a black-holed address
yields promptly to the next. The downgrade is self-healing: if IPv4 then turns
out not to work after all (for example a wire error briefly tripped the downgrade
on a host that is really IPv6-only), the next connect reverts to dual-stack so
the mount still comes back up. An IPv6-only host therefore never stays
downgraded, and a healthy IPv6 host never trips it.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrd (1),
.BR xrdcp (1),
.BR xrdfs (1),
.BR fusermount3 (1)
